
ï»¿<table width="45%" border ="0">
<tr>
<td bgcolor="#FFE4E1"><font color="#800000" size="5"><p style="text-align:center"><b><a href="http://gutenberg.net.au" target="_blank">Project
Gutenberg Australia</a><br>
</b></font><font color="#800000" size="4"><i>a treasure-trove of literature</i><br>
</font>treasure found hidden with no evidence of ownership</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
<!-- ad goes here -->
<pre>

Title:      The Spiral Staircase (Some Must Watch)
Author:     Ethel Lina White
* A Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook *
eBook No.:  0300931.txt
Edition:    1
Language:   English
Character set encoding:     Latin-1(ISO-8859-1)--8 bit
Date first posted:          June 2003
Date most recently updated: November 2010

Project Gutenberg of Australia eBooks are created from printed editions
which are in the public domain in Australia, unless a copyright notice
is included. We do NOT keep any eBooks in compliance with a particular
paper edition.

Copyright laws are changing all over the world. Be sure to check the
copyright laws for your country before downloading or redistributing this
file.

This eBook is made available at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg of Australia License which may be viewed online at
http://gutenberg.net.au/licence.html

To contact Project Gutenberg of Australia go to http://gutenberg.net.au

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

A Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook

Title:      The Spiral Staircase (Some Must Watch)
Author:     Ethel Lina White



A MYSTERY NOVEL

[Originally published under the title of SOME MUST WATCH (1933)]


"For Some must watch, while some must sleep: So runs the world away."
--HAMLET


*



CHAPTER I. THE TREE



Helen realised that she had walked too far just as day-light was
beginning to fade.

As she looked around her, she was struck by the desolation of the
country. During her long walk, she had met no one, and had passed no
cottage. The high-banked lanes, which blocked her view, were little
better than steep mudslides. On either side of her rose the
hills--barren sepia mounds, blurred by a fine spit of rain.

Over all hung a heavy sense of expectancy, as though the valley awaited
some disaster. In the distance--too far away to be even a
threat--rumbled faint, lumpy sounds of thunder.

Fortunately Helen was a realist, used to facing hard economic facts, and
not prone to self-pity. Of soaring spirit, yet possessed of sound common
sense, she believed that those thinly-veiled pitfalls over
hell--heaviness of body and darkness of spirit--could be explained away
by liver or atmosphere.

Small and pale as a slip of crescent moon, she was only redeemed from
insignificance by her bush of light-red springy hair. But, in spite of
her unostentatious appearance, she throbbed with a passion for life,
expressed in an expectancy of the future, which made her welcome each
fresh day, and shred its interest from every hour and minute.

As a child, she pestered strangers to tell her the time, not from a mere
dull wish to know whether it were early or late, but from a specialised
curiosity to see their watches. This habit persisted when she had to
earn her own living under the roofs of fortunate people who possessed
houses of their own.

Her one dread was being out of work. She could estimate, therefore, the
scores of replies which had probably been received as a result of the
advertisement for a lady-help at Professor Warren's country house; and,
as soon as she arrived at the Summit, she realised that its very
loneliness had helped to remove her from the ranks of the unemployed.

It was tucked away in a corner, somewhere at the union of three
counties, on the border-line between England and Wales. The nearest town
was twenty-two miles away--the nearest village, twelve. No maid would
stay at such a forsaken pocket--a pocket with a hole in it--through
which dribbled a chronic shrinkage of domestic labour.

Mrs. Oates, who, with her husband, helped to fill the breach, summed up
the situation to Helen, when they met, by appointment, at the Ladies
Waiting Room, at Hereford.

"I told Miss Warren as she'd have to get a lady. No one else would put
up with it."

Helen agreed that ladies were a drug in the market. She had enjoyed some
months of enforced leisure, and was only too grateful for the security
of any home, after weeks of stringent economy--since "starvation" is a
word not found in a lady's vocabulary. Apart from the essential
loneliness of the locality, it was an excellent post, for she had not
only a nice room and good food, but she took her meals with the family.

The last fact counted, with her, for more than a gesture of
consideration, since it gave her the chance to study her employers. She
was lucky in being able to project herself into their lives, for she
could rarely afford a seat at the Pictures, and had to extract her
entertainment from the raw material of life.

The Warren family possessed some of the elements of drama. The
Professor, who was a widow, and his sister and housekeeper--Miss
Warren--were middle-aged to elderly. Helen classified them as definite
types, academic, frigid, and well-bred, but otherwise devoid of the
vital human interest.

Their step-mother, however, old Lady Warren--the invalid in the blue
room--was of richer mould. Blood and mud had been used in her mixture,
and the whole was churned up, thrice daily, by a dose of evil temper.
She was the terror of the household; only yesterday, she had flung a
basin of gruel at her nurse's head.

It had been her natural and ladylike protest against this substitute for
the rare steak, which she preferred, but was unable to chew. As her aim
was excellent, it had achieved the desired result; that morning Oates
had driven the departing nurse into the town, and was coming back, in
the evening, with a fresh target.

Helen, who had not yet been brought into contact with the old lady,
rather admired her spirit. The household was waiting for her to die, but
she still called the tune. Every morning, Death knocked politely on the
door of the blue room; and Lady Warren saluted him in her customary
fashion, with a thumb to her nose.

Besides this low-comedy relief, Helen suspected the triangle situation,
as represented by the Professor's son, his daughter-in-law, and the
resident pupil, whom the Professor was coaching for the Indian Civil
Service. The son--a clever, ugly youth--was violently and aggressively
in love with his wife, Simone. She was an unusually attractive girl,
with money of her own, and a wanton streak in her composition.

To put it mildly, she was an experimentalist with men. At present, she
was plainly trying to make sentimental history with the pupil, Stephen
Rice--a good-looking casual young sprig, rejected of Oxford. Helen liked
him instinctively, and hoped he would continue to resist the lady.

Although her curiosity hovered around the Summit and its inmates, her
duties were her chief interest. The reminder that she had a new job to
hold down made her pull a face as she glanced at her watch.

Already the first shadows were beginning to stir, as prelude to the
short interlude between the lights. Very soon it would be dark.

A long walk stretched between her and the Summit. She could see it, in
the distance, blocked with solid assurance, against the background of
shrouded hills. But, dividing them, yawned a bowl of empty country,
which dipped down for about a mile, into a tree-lined hollow, before it
climbed up a corresponding slope, to the young plantation on its crest.

In spite of her stoicism, Helen's heart sank faintly at the prospect of
re-passing through that choked dell. Since she had come to the Summit,
she had been struck by the density of the surrounding undergrowth. When
she looked out of the windows, at twilight, the evergreen shrubs on the
lawn seemed actually to move and advance closer to the walls, as though
they were pioneers in a creeping invasion.

Feeling secure as in a fortress, she enjoyed the contrast between the
witched garden and the solid house, cheerful with lights and voices. She
was inside and safe. But now, she was outside, and nearly two miles
away.

"Idiot" she told herself, "it's not late. It's only dark. Scram."

As she was denied the employer's privilege of abuse, she got even by
saying exactly what she liked to herself. She whipped up her courage by
calling herself a choice collection of names, as she began to run
cautiously, slipping on the slimy camber of the lane, since the rutted
middle was too stony for safety.

She kept her eyes fixed on her goal, which seemed to be sinking
gradually into the ground, as she dipped lower and lower. Just before
she lost sight of it, a light gleamed out in the window of the blue
room.

It seemed to her a signal, calling her back to a special duty. Every
evening, at twilight, she had to go around the house, locking the doors
and putting the shutters over the windows. Hitherto, she had derided the
job as the limit of precaution; but, here, in the tenebrous solitude, it
assumed an unpleasant significance.

There was a connection between it and a certain atmosphere of
tension--excitement in the kitchen, whispers in the drawing-room--which
emanated from a background of murder.

Murder. Helen shied instinctively at the word. Her mind was too healthy
to regard crime other than fiction, which turned newspapers into the
sensational kind of reading-matter, which is sold on Railway Station
bookstalls. It was impossible to believe that these tragedies happened
to real people.

She forced herself to think of a safer subject.

"Suppose I won the Irish Sweep."

But, as the lane dropped deeper, its steep banks shutting out the light,
she discovered that she had a mind above mere supposititious wealth.
Simple pleasures appealed to her more at that moment--the safety of the
kitchen at the Summit, with Mrs. Oates and the ginger cat for company,
and dripping-toast for tea.

She made another start.

"Suppose I won the Irish Sweep. Someone's got to win. Out of all the
millions of people in the world, a few people are marked out to win
fortunes. Staggering."

Unfortunately, the thought introduced another equally stupendous.

"Yes. And out of all the millions of people who die in their beds, a few
are marked out to be murdered."

She switched off the current of her thoughts, for before her, crouched
the black mouth of the hollow.

When she had crossed it, earlier in the afternoon, she had been chiefly
concerned in picking out a fairly dry passage over the rich black mould
formed by leaf-deposits. She had only marked it down as a sheltered spot
in which to search for early primroses.

But the promise of spring was now only a mockery. As she advanced, the
place seemed an area of desolation and decay, with wind-falls for crops.
In this melancholy trough--choked with seasonal litter--sound was
reduced to furtive rustles; light was shrunken to a dark miasma, through
which trees loomed with the semblance of men.

Suddenly, murder ceased to be a special fiction of the Press. It became
real--a menace and a monstrosity.

Helen could no longer control her thoughts, as she remembered what Mrs.
Oates had told her about the crimes. There were four of them--credibly
the work of some maniac, whose chosen victims were girls.

The first two murders were committed in the town, which was too far away
from the Summit for the inmates to worry. The third took place in a
village, but still comfortably remote. The last girl was strangled in a
lonely country-house, within a five-mile radius of Professor Warren's
residence.

It was an uncomfortable reminder that the maniac was growing bolder with
success. Each time he penetrated closer into the privacy of his victim.

"The first time, it was just a street-murder," thought Helen. "Then, he
hid in a garden. After that, he went inside a house. And then--right
upstairs. You ought to feel safe there."

Although she was determined not to yield to panic, and run, she ceased
to pick her way between cart-ruts tilled with water, but plunged
recklessly into muddy patches, whose suction glugged at the soles of her
shoes. She had reached the densest part of the grove, where the trees
intergrew in stunting overcrowding.

To her imagination, the place was suggestive of evil. Tattered leaves
still hung to bare boughs, unpleasantly suggestive of rags of decaying
flesh fluttering from a gibbet. A sluggish stream was clogged with dead
leaves. Derelict litter of broken boots and rusty tins cropped out of a
rank growth of docks and nettles, to mark a tramp's camping-place.

Again Helen thought of the murders.

"It's coming nearer--and nearer. Nearer to us."

Suddenly, she wondered if she were being followed. As she stopped to
listen, the hollow seemed to be murmurous with faint sounds--the whisper
of shrivelled leaves, the snapping of twigs, the chuckles of dripping
water.

It was possible to fancy anything. Although she knew that, if she ran,
her imagination would gallop away with her, she rushed across the soft
ground, collecting poultices of mud on the soles of her boots.

Her heart was pounding when the opposite lane reared itself in front of
her, like the wall of a house. The steepness however proved deceptive,
for, around the first bend, it doubled, like a crooked arm, to relieve
the steepness of the gradient.

Once more, Helen's normal courage returned, for her watch told her that
she had won her race against time. The precious new job was safe. Her
legs ached as she toiled upwards, but she cheered herself by the
reminders that a merry heart goes all the way--that the longest lane has
a turning--that every step was bringing her nearer home. Presently she
reached the top of the rise, and entered the plantation, which was
thinly planted with young firs and larches, and carpeted with fallen
needles. At its thickest part, she could see through it, and, suddenly,
she caught sight of the Summit.

It was no longer a distant silhouette, but was so close that she could
distinguish the colour of the window-curtains in the blue room. The
vegetable garden sloped down to the wall which bounded the plantation,
and a coil of rising smoke, together with a cheerful whistle told her
that the gardener was on the other side, making a bonfire.

At the sight of her goal, Helen slackened her pace. Now that it was
over, her escapade seemed an adventure, so that she felt reluctant to
return to dull routine. Very soon, she would be going round, locking up
in readiness for Curfew. It sounded dull, for she had forgotten that, in
the darkness of the hollow, she realised the significance of a barred
bedroom window.

The rising wind spattered her face with rain, and increased her sense of
rebellion against four walls and a roof. She told herself that it was
blowing up for a dirty night, as she walked towards the front gate.

At its end, the plantation thinned down to a single avenue of trees,
through which she could see the stone posts of the entrance to the
Summit, and the laurels of the drive. As she watched, fresh lights
glowed through the drawing-room windows.

It was the promise of tea--calling her home. She was on the point of
breaking into a run, when her heart gave a sudden leap.

She was positive that the furthest tree had moved.

She stopped and looked at it more closely, only to conclude that her
fancy had tricked her. It was lifeless and motionless, like the rest.
Yet there was something about its shape--some slight distortion of the
trunk--which filled her with vague distrust.

It was not a question of logic--she only knew that she did not want to
pass that special tree.

As she lingered, in hesitation, her early training asserted itself. She
began to earn her living, at the age of fourteen, by exercising the dogs
of the wealthy. As these rich dogs were better-fed, and stronger than
herself, they often tried to control a situation, so she was used to
making quick decisions.

In this instance, her instinct dictated a short way home, which involved
a diagonal cut across boggy ground, through a patch of briars, and over
the garden wall.

She carried through her programme, in the minimum of time, and with
little material damage, but complete loss of dignity. After a safe, but
earthy, landing in the cabbage-bed, she walked around to the front door.
With her latch key in the lock, she turned, for a last look at the
plantation, visible through the gates.

She was just in time to see the last tree split into two, as a man
slipped from behind its trunk, and disappeared into the shadow.



CHAPTER II. THE FIRST CRACKS



The surge of Helen's curiosity was stronger than any other emotion. It
compelled her to rush down the drive, in an effort to investigate the
mystery. But when she reached the gate she could see only lines of
trunks, criss-crossing in confusing perspectives.

Forgetful of her duties, she stood gazing into the gloom of the
plantation while a first star trembled through a rent in the tattered
clouds.

"It was a man," she thought triumphantly, "so I was right. He was
hiding."

She knew that the incident admitted the simple explanation of a young
man waiting for his sweetheart. Yet she rejected it, partly because she
wanted a thrill, and partly because she did not believe it met the case.
In her opinion, a lover would naturally pass the time by pacing his
beat, or smoking a cigarette.

But the rigid pose, and the lengthy vigil, while the man stood in
mimicry of a tree, suggested a tenacious purpose.

It reminded her of the concentrated patience of a crocodile, lurking in
the shadow of a river bank, to pounce on its prey.

"Well, whatever he was doing, I'm glad I didn't pass him," she decided
as she turned to go back to the house.

It was a tall grey stone building, of late Victorian architecture, and
it looked strangely out of keeping with the savage landscape. Built with
a flight of eleven stone steps leading up to the front door, and large
windows, protected with green jalousies, it was typical of the
residential quarter of a prosperous town. It should have been surrounded
by an acre of well-kept garden, and situated in a private road, with
lamp-posts and a pillar-box.

For all that, it offered a solidly resistant front to the solitude. Its
state of excellent repair was evidence that no money was spared to keep
it weather-proof. There was no blistered paint, no defective guttering.
The whole was somehow suggestive of a house which, at a pinch, could be
rendered secure as an armoured car.

It glowed with electric-light, for Oates' principal duty was to work the
generating plant. A single wire overhead was also a comfortable
reassurance of its link with civilisation.

Helen no longer felt any wish to linger outside. The evening mists were
rising so that the evergreen shrubs, which clumped the lawn, appeared to
quiver into life. Viewed through a veil of vapour, they looked black and
grim, like mourners assisting at a funeral.

"If I don't hurry, they'll get between me and the house, and head me
off," Helen told herself, still playing her favourite game of
make-believe. She had some excuse for her childishness, since her sole
relaxation had been a tramp through muddy blind lanes, instead of three
hours at the Pictures.

She ran eagerly up the steps, and, after a guilty glance at her shoes,
put in some vigorous foot-work on the huge iron scraper. Her latch-key
was still in the lock, where she had left it, before her swoop down the
drive. As she turned it, and heard the spring lock snap behind her,
shutting her inside, she was aware of a definite sense of shelter.

The house seemed a solid hive of comfort, honey-combed with golden
cells, each glowing with light and warmth. It buzzed with voices, it
offered company, and protection.

In spite of her appreciation, the interior of the Summit would have
appalled a modern decorator. The lobby was floored with black and ginger
tiles, on which lay a black fur rug. Its furniture consisted of a chair
with carved arms, a terra cotta drain-pipe, to hold umbrellas, and a
small palm on a stand of peacock-blue porcelain.

Pushing open the swing-doors, Helen entered the hall, which was entirely
carpeted with peacock-blue pile, and dark with massive mahogany. The
strains of wireless struggled through the heavy curtain which muffled
the drawing-room door, and the humid air was scented with potted
primulas, blended with orange-pekoe tea.

Although Helen's movements had been discreet, someone with keen hearing
had heard the swing of the lobby doors. The velvet folds of the
_portiere_ were pushed aside, and a voice cried out in petulant
eagerness.

"Stephen, you. Oh, it's you."

Helen was swift to notice the drop in young Mrs. Warren's voice.

"So you were listening for him, my dear," she deduced. "And dressed up,
like a mannequin."

Her glance of respect was reserved for the black-and-white satin
tea-frock, which gave the impression that Simone had been imported
straight from the London Restaurant, _thé dansant_, together with
the music. She also followed the conventions of fashion in such details
as artificial lips and eyebrows superimposed on the original structure.
Her glossy black hair was sleeked back into curls, resting on the nape
of her neck, and her nails were polished vermilion.

But in spite of long slanting lines, painted over shaven arches, and a
tiny bow of crimson constricting her natural mouth, she had not advanced
far from the cave. Her eyes glowed with primitive fire, and her
expression hinted at a passionate nature. She was either a beautiful
savage, or the last word in modern civilisation, demanding
self-expression.

The result was, the same--a girl who would do exactly as she chose.

As she looked down, from her own superior height, at Helen's small,
erect figure, the contrast between them was sharp. The girl was hatless,
and wore a shabby tweed coat, which was furred with moisture. She
brought back with her the outside elements, mud on her boots, the wind
in her cheeks, and glittering drops on her mop of ginger hair.

"Do you know where Mr. Rice is?" demanded Simone.

"He went out of the gate, just before me," replied Helen, who was a born
opportunist, and always managed to be present at the important entrances
and exits. "And I heard him saying something about 'wishing good-bye.'"

Simone's face clouded at the reminder that the pupil was going home on
the morrow. She turned sharply, when her husband peered over her
shoulder, like an inquisitive bird. He was tall, with a jagged crest of
red hair, and horn-rimmed glasses.

"The tea's growing stewed," he said, in a high-pitched voice. "We're not
going to wait any longer for Rice."

"I am," Simone told him.

"But the tea-cake's getting cold."

"I adore cold muffin."

"Well--won't you pour out for me?"

"Sorry, darling. One of the things my mother never taught me."

"I see." Newton shrugged as he turned away. "I hope the noble Rice will
appreciate your sacrifice."

Simone pretended not to hear, as she spoke to Helen, who had also
feigned deafness.

"When you see Mr. Rice, tell him we're waiting tea for him."

Helen realised that the entertainment was over, or rather, that the
scene had been ruthlessly cut, just when she was looking forward to
reprisals from Simone.

She walked rather' reluctantly upstairs, until she reached the first
landing, where she paused, to listen, outside the blue room. It always
challenged her curiosity, because of the formidable old invalid who lay
within, invisible, but paragraphed, like some legendary character.

As she could hear the murmur of Miss Warren's voice--for the
step-daughter was acting as deputy nurse--she decided to slip into her
room, to put it ready for the night.

The Summit was a three-storied house, with two staircases and a
semi-basement. A bathroom on each floor and no water during a drought.
The family--consisting of old Lady Warren, the Professor, and Miss
Warren--slept on the first floor, while the spare-rooms were on the
second. The top attics housed the domestic staff--when any--and, at
present, was only occupied by the Oates couple.

Newton now counted as a visitor, for he and his wife had the big red
room, on the second floor, while his old room, which connected with the
bedrooms of Lady Warren and the Professor, was turned into the nurse's
sitting-room.

As Helen opened the door of Miss Warren's room, a small incident
occurred which was fraught with future significance. The handle slipped
round in her grip, so that she had to exert pressure in order to turn
the knob.

"A screw's loose," she thought. "Directly I've time I'll get the
screwdriver and put it right."

Anyone acquainted with Helen's characteristics would know that she
always manufactured leisure for an unfamiliar job, even if she had to
neglect some legitimate duty. It was the infusion of novelty into her
dull routine which helped to keep undimmed her passionate zest for life.

Miss Warren's room was sombre and bare, with brown wallpaper, curtains,
and cretonne. An old-gold cushion supplied the sole touch of colour. It
was essentially the sanctum of a student, for books overflowed from the
numerous shelves and cases, while the desk was littered with papers.

Helen was rather surprised to find that the shutters were fastened
already, while the small green-shaded lamp over the bureau gleamed like
a cat's eye.'

As she returned to the landing, Miss Warren came out of the blue room.
Like her brother, she was tall and of a commanding figure, but there the
resemblance ended. She appeared to Helen as an overbred and superior
personality, with dim flickering features, and eyes the hue of
rainwater.

In common with the Professor however, she seemed to resent the gaze of a
stranger as an outrage on her privacy; yet, while her remote glance sent
Helen away on a very long journey, the Professor decimated her out of
existence.

"You're late, Miss Capel," she remarked in her toneless voice.

"I'm sorry." Helen looked anxious, as she wondered if her precious job
were in peril. "I understood, from Mrs. Oates, that I was free till
five. It's my first afternoon off since I came."

"That is not what I meant. Of course, I am not reproaching you for any
breach of duty. But it is too late for you to be returning from a walk."

"Oh, thank you, Miss Warren. I did go farther than I intended. But it
did not grow dark till the last mile."

Miss Warren looked at Helen, who felt herself slipping away a thousand
miles or so.

"A mile is a long way from home," she said. "It is not wise to go far,
even by daylight. Surely you get sufficient exercise working about the
house?" Why don't you go into the garden to get fresh air?"

"Oh, but Miss Warren," protested. Helen, "that is not the same as a good
stretching walk, is it?"

"I understand." Miss Warren smiled faintly. "But I want you, in turn, to
understand this. You are a young girl, and I am responsible for your
safety."

Even while the warning seemed grotesque on Miss Warren's lips, Helen
thrilled to the intangible hint of danger. It seemed to be
everywhere--floating in the air--inside the house, as well as outside in
the dark, tree-dripping valley.

"Blanche."

A deep bass voice--like that of a man, or an old woman--boomed faintly
from the blue room. Instantly, the stately Miss Warren shrank, from a
paralysing personality, to a schoolgirl hurrying to obey the summons of
her mistress.

"Yes, Mother," she called. "I'm coming."

She crossed the landing, in ungainly strides, and shut the door of the
blue room behind her, to Helen's disappointment.

"I'm getting a strange contrast in my types," she thought, as she slowly
walked up the stairs, to the next landing. "Mrs. Newton is torrid, and
Miss Warren frigid. Hot and cold water, by turns. I wonder what will
happen in case of fusion?"

She liked to coin phrases, just as she enjoyed the reflection that she
was brought into daily contact with two bachelors and a widower, thus
reviving a lost art. Those derided Victorians, who looked upon every man
as a potential husband, certainly extracted every ounce of interest from
a dull genus.

Yet, while she respected the Professor's intellect, and genuinely looked
forward to the visits of the young Welsh doctor, she resolved to go on
buying Savings Certificates, for her old age. For she believed in
God--but not in Jane Eyre.

She was on the point of entering her room, when she noticed that a light
was shining through the glass transom of the bachelor's room. It drew
her, as a magnet, to his door.

"Are you inside, Mr. Rice?" she called.

"Come and see for yourself," invited the pupil.

"I only wanted to know if the light was being wasted."

"Well, it's not. Come in."

Helen obeyed the invitation. She was used to two kinds of behavior from
men; they either overlooked her altogether, or paid her stressed
attentions, in private.

Of the alternatives, she preferred to be insulted; she could always give
back as good as she got, while she was braced by any kind of personal
experience.

She liked Stephen Rice, because he treated her exactly as he treated
other girls--with a casual frankness. He was smoking, as he pitched
clothing into an open suitcase, and he made no apology for his state of
undress, as his underwear satisfied his own standard of decency.
Although he did not appeal to Helen, who liked a man's face to betray
some trace of intellect, or spirit, he was generally accepted as
unusually handsome, on the evidence of heavy regular features, and thick
waving hair, which grew rather too low on his brow.

"Like dogs?" he asked, shaking out a confusion of ties.

"Let me," remarked Helen, taking them from him, with kind firmness. "Of
course I like dogs. I've looked after them."

"Then that's a bad mark to you. I loathe women who boss dogs. You set
them showing off in Parks. Like the blasted centurion, who said come and
he cometh. I always want to bite them, since the dogs are too
gentlemanly to do their own job."

"Yes, I know," nodded Helen, who agreed, on principle, when it was
possible. "But my dogs used to boss me. They had a secret understanding
to all pull at once, in different directions. The wonder is I didn't
develop into a starfish."

Stephen shouted with laughter.

"Good for them. Like to see something special in the way of dogs? I
bought him, today, from a farmer."

Helen looked around the untidy room.

"Where is he?" she asked. "Under the bed?"

"Is that where you sleep? Inside the bed, you cuckoo."

"Oo. Suppose he has fleas?"

"Suppose he hasn't? Come, Otto."

Stephen raised a corner of the eider-down, and an Alsatian peeped out.

"Bit shy," explained Stephen. "I say, what price old Miss Warren when
she sees him? She won't allow a dog inside the house."

"Why?" asked Helen.

"Afraid of them."

Oh, no, she can't be. It's the other way round. People are afraid of
her, because she's so formidable."

"That's only her make-up. She's a hollow funk. Put her in a jam, and
she'd smash." She's got the wind up now, over this gorilla gent. By the
way, are you afraid of him?"

"Of course not." Helen laughed. "Perhaps, I might be a bit if I was
alone. But no one could feel nervous in a house full of people."

"I don't agree. It all depends on the people. You'll always find a weak
link. Miss Warren is one. She'd let you down.

"But there's safety in numbers," persisted Helen. "He wouldn't dare to
come here. D' you want any sewing done?"

"No, thank you, my dear. The godly Mrs. Oates has kept me sewn up. In
more sense than one, by the way. Now, there's a character, if you like.
You can bank on her--if there's not a bottle about."

"Why--does she drink?"

Stephen only laughed in reply.

"Look here, you'd better clear out," he advised, "before Miss Warren
raises hell. This is the bachelor's room."

"But I'm not a lady. I'm Staff," explained Helen indignantly. "And
they're waiting tea for you."

"You mean, Simone is waiting. Old Newton is wolfing down the tea-cake."
Stephen pulled on his coat. "I'll take the pup down with me. Introduce
him to the family, and make us two to one, in the muffin handicap."

"Surely you don't call that large thing a pup," cried Helen, as the
Alsatian followed his master into the bathroom.

"He's quite young, really." Stephen's voice was positively tender. "I
love dogs--and hate women. Reason. Remind me to tell you the story of my
life."

Helen felt slightly forlorn when his whistle died away in the distance.
She knew she would miss the pupil. But a second glance around the untidy
room reminded her that his absence would mean less work, so she resolved
to leave all regret to Simone.

Her tea was calling her downstairs to the kitchen. Not stopping to clear
away any litter, she hurried to her own room, and took off her coat, and
shoes. As the order for closed shutters only included the basement,
ground-floor and first-floor, her own casement banged open to the wind.

In spite of her haste, she could not resist the luxury of lingering
there, looking out over the valley, just to enjoy the sense of contrast.
She could see only a spongy blackness. It seemed to stir and creep
before the breath of the breeze. Not a gleam shone from any window of
the sparsely sprinkled cottages.

"I wonder where I stood, looking across at the Summit," she wondered.
"It seemed such a long way off, then. And now, I'm inside, safe."

She was visited by no prescience to warn her that--since her
return--there had been certain trivial incidents which were the first
cracks in the walls of her fortress. Once they were started, nothing
could stop the process' of disintegration; and each future development
would act as a wedge, to force the fissures into ever-widening breaches,
letting in the night.



CHAPTER III. A FIRESIDE STORY



Helen went down to the kitchen, by the back way--a spiral of steep
steps, broken up into flights at each floor, by a small landing, where a
door connected it with the main staircase. It was covered with the
original linoleum--brown-and-biscuit, and small-patterned--like an
old-fashioned tile, but still in excellent condition.

To Helen, this dingy back way down represented the essence of romance.
It was a delicate filament connecting her with the glamour of the past,
and revived memories of spacious and leisured days.

She had been brought up in a tiny mansion-flat, with no room to keep a
maid, a hat-box, or a cat. The perambulator was housed in the bathroom,
and the larder was thoughtfully built in the only spare recess, which
happened to be next to the stove.

When Helen reached the basement-hall, she could hear the welcome rattle
of china and see the glow of the kitchen fire through the frosted glass
panels of the door. Mrs. Oates was drinking tea from her saucer as she
made herself another piece of toast.''

She was a tall, strapping woman, broad-shouldered and muscular, with an
ugly, underhung face. She did not wear uniform, and her afternoon skirt
was protected by an apron of red and black Welsh flannel.

"I heard you running down all them steep steps," she said. "You're free
to use the front."

"Yes I know" replied Helen. "But back-stairs remind me of my granny's
house. The servants and the children were never allowed to go up the
front way, because of wearing out the carpet."

"Go on," remarked Mrs. Oates politely.

"Yes, indeed, and it was the same with the jam. Pots and pots of it, but
the strawberry and raspberry were only for the elders. All the children
had to eat was rhubarb, or ginger-and-marrow. How cruel we grown-ups
were then."

"Not you. You should say 'them grown-ups.'"

"'Them grown-ups,'" repeated Helen meekly, accepting the correction.
"I've come to invite myself to tea, as your husband is away."

"And you're welcome." Mrs. Oates rose to get down fresh china from the
Welsh dresser. "I see as how you know the tricks of the trade. You want
a brown pot to draw the flavour from the leaves. I'll get out the
drawing-room cake for you."

"Shop-cake? Not on your life. I want kitchen dough-cake. You don't know
how all this appeals to me, Mrs. Oates. I was thinking of this, about an
hour ago, in very different circumstances."

She looked around her with appreciative eyes. The kitchen was a huge
room, with an uneven floor, and corners where shadows collected. There
was no white enamel, no glass-fronted cabinet, no refrigerator; yet the
shabby hearth-rug and broken basket-chairs looked homely and comfortable
in the glow from the range.

"What an enormous cavern," said Helen. "It must make a lot of work for
you and your husband."

"Oh, it don't worry Oates." Mrs. Oates' voice was bitter.

"All the more places for him to muck up, and me to clean up after him."

"It looks fine. All the same, Miss Warren would have a fit if she saw
there were no shutters."

As she spoke, Helen glanced at the small windows, set high up in the
walls. They were on a level with the garden, and through the
mud-speckled glass, she could see a faint stir of darkness, as the
bushes moved in the wind.

"It's only just turned dark," said Mrs. Oates. "They can wait till I've
finished my tea."

"But don't you feel nervous, down here all by yourself?"

"D' you mean him?" Mrs. Oates' voice was scornful. "No, miss I've seen
too many work-shy men to be scared of anything in trousers. If he tried
any of his funny business on me, I'd soon sock him in the jaw."

"But there is a murderer," Helen reminded her.

"He's not likely to trouble us. It's like the Irish Sweep; someone wins
it, but it's never you and never me."

They were consoling words and made Helen feel safe and comfortable as
she crunched her toast. The grandfather clock ticked pleasantly and the
ginger cat purred on the best patch of rug.

Suddenly she felt in the mood for a thrill.

"I wish you would tell me about the murders," she said.

Mrs. Oates stared at her in surprise.

"Why, they was in all the newspapers," she said. "Can't you read?"

"I naturally keep up with all the important things," Helen explained.
"But I've never been interested in crime. Only, when it's a local
murder, it seems slack to know nothing about it."

"That's right," agreed Mrs. Oates, as she relaxed to gossip. "Well, the
first girl was murdered in town. She did a dancing-turn, with no clothes
on, at one of the Halls, but she was out of a job. She was in a public,
and had one over the eight. They seen her go out of the bar, just before
time. When the rest come out, she was lying in the gutter, dead. Her
face was as black as that bit of coal."

Helen shuddered.

"The second murder was committed in the town, too, wasn't it?" she
asked.

"Yes. She was a housemaid, poor thing. It was her evening out, and when
her master came out into the garden, to give the dog its run, he found
her all doubled up, on the drive, choked, like the other. And no one
heard a whisper, though it was quite close to the drawing-room windows.
So she must have been took by surprise."

"I know," nodded Helen. "There were shrubs on the lawn, that looked like
people. And suddenly, a shrub leaped on her."

Mrs. Oates stared at her, and then began to count on her fingers.

"Where was I? Let me see. One, two, three. Yes, the third was in a
public-house, and it put everyone in a proper scare, because he'd come
out into the country. The young lady in the bar had just popped into the
kitchen, to swill a few glasses under the tap, and they found her there,
two minutes after, choked with her own tea-cloth. There was people in
the bar. But no one heard a sound. He must have crept in through the
back-door, and jumped on her from behind."

Helen listed with a sense of unreality. She told herself that these
things had never really happened. And yet they toned in too well with
the damp darkness of the valley, where trees crept up to windows, until
it was possible to imagine confused faces peering down into the kitchen.
Suddenly she felt sated with secondary horrors.

"Don't tell my any more," she implored.

But Mrs. Oates was wound up to a finish.

"The last," she said, "was five miles from here, as the crow flies. A
pure young girl, about your own age. She was a nursery governess in some
big family, but she was home for her holiday and she was going to a
dance. She was up in her bedroom, and drawing her beautiful party-frock
over head, when he finished the job for her. Twisted the lovely satin
frock all round her neck, as it ate right into her throat, and wrapped
it all over her face, so that she never saw another mortal thing on
earth. Looking at herself in the glass, she was, and that was her last
sight, which shows these beauty competitions don't get you far."

Helen did her best to resist the surge of her imagination, by picking on
the weak spots in the tale.

"If she was looking at herself in the glass, she'd see him too, and be
warned. And if her dress was over her head how could she see herself?
Besides her arms would protect her throat."

All the same, she could not help making a mental picture of the scene.
Because her own possession were so few, perhaps, she had a keen sense of
property, and always exercised a proprietary right over her room, even
if someone else paid the rent.

She imagined that the murdered governess occupied a bedroom much like
her own at the Summit--brightly-lit and well-furnished. It was cluttered
with girlish treasures, symbolic of the cross-roads--childish relics and
womanhood's trophies, of restaurant souvenirs. Hockey sticks jostled
with futuristic, long-bodied dolls; photographs of school-groups stood
beside the latest boy. Powder, vanishing-cream--and the distorted satin
shape on the carpet.

"How did he get in?" Helen asked, desperately anxious to prove that this
horror could not be true.

"Quite easy," Mrs. Oates told her. "He climbed up the front porch, just
under her bedroom window."

"But how could he tell she would be there alone?"

"Ah, but he's a _luny_, and they know everything. He's after girls.
Believe me, or believe me not, if there was a girl anywhere about, he'd
smell her out."

Helen glanced apprehensively at the window. She could barely distinguish
glistening twigs tossing amidst dim undergrowth.

"Have you locked the back door?" she asked.

"I locked it hours ago. I always do when Oates is away."

"Isn't he rather late getting back?"

"Nothing to make a song about." Mrs. Oates glanced at the clock, which
told her its customary lie. "The rain will turn them steep lanes to
glue, and the car's that old, Oates says he has to get out and carry it
up the hills."

"Will he carry the new nurse too?"

Mrs. Oates, however, resented Helen's attempt to introduce a lighter
note.

"I'm not worrying about her," she replied, with dignity. "I could trust
Oates alone with the very highest in the land."

"I'm sure you could." Helen glanced again at the greyness outside the
window. "Suppose we put the shutters up and make things look more
cheerful?"

"What's the good of locking up?" grumbled Mrs. Oates, as she rose
reluctantly. "If he's a mind to come in, he'll find a way. Still, it's
got to be done." But Helen enjoyed the task of barring the windows. It
gave her a sense of victory over the invading night. When the short red
curtains were drawn over the panes, the kitchen presented the picture of
a delightful domestic interior.

"There's another window in the scullery," remarked Mrs. Oates, opening a
door at the far end of the kitchen.

On the other side loomed the blackness of a coal-mine. Then Mrs. Oates
found the switch and snapped on the light, revealing a bare clean room,
with blue-washed walls, a mangle, copper, and plate-racks.

"What a mercy this basement is wired," said Helen.

"Most of it's as dark as a lover's lane," Mrs. Oates told her. "There's
only a light in the passage, and switches in the storeroom and pantry.
Oates did say as how he'd finish the job properly, and that's as far as
he'll ever get. He's only got one wife to work for him, poor man."

"What a labyrinth," cried Helen, as she opened the scullery door and
gazed down the vista of the passage, dimly lit by one small
electric-bulb, swinging from the ceiling, half-way down its length. The
light revealed a section of stone-slabbed floor and hinted at darker
recesses lost in obscurity.

On either side were closed doors, dingy with shabby brown paint. To
Helen's imagination they looked grim and sepulchral as sealed tombs.

"Don't you always feel a closed door is mysterious?" she asked. "You
wonder what lies on the other side."

"I'll make a guess," said Mrs. Oates. "A side of bacon and a string of
Spanish onions, and if you open the store room door, you'll find I'm not
far out. Come along. That's all here."

"No," Helen declared. "After your nice little bedtime tales, I shan't
sleep until I've opened every door and satisfied myself that no one's
hiding inside."

"And what would a shrimp like you do if you found the murderer?"

"Go for him, before I'd time to think. When you feel angry, you can't
feel frightened."

In spite of Mrs. Oates' laughter, Helen insisted on fetch ing a candle
from the scullery and exploring the basement. Mrs. Oates lagged behind
her, as she made an exhaustive search of the pantry, store-room, larder,
boot-closet, and the other offices.

At the end of the passage, she turned into a darker alley, where the
coal-cellars and wood-house were located. She flashed her light over
each recess, stooping behind dusty sacks and creeping into corners.

"What d' you expect to find?" asked Mrs. Oates. "A nice young man?"

Her grin faded, however, as Helen paused before a locked door.

"There's one place as you, nor no one else, will ever get into," she
said grimly. "If the luny gets inside there, I'll say good luck to him."

"Why?" asked Helen. "What is it?"

"The wine-cellar--and the Professor keeps the key. It's the nearest
you'll ever get to it."

Helen, who was a total abstainer, through force of circumstances,
realised that, since she had been at the Summit, no intoxicant had been
served with the meals.

"Are they all teetotallers here?" she asked.

"There's nothing to hinder the Professor having his glass," said Mrs.
Oates, "seeing as he keeps the key. But Oates and the young gentlemen
have got to go to the _Bull_ for their drop of _tiddley_. And Mr. Rice
is the only one as has ever asked me if I have a mouth."

"What a shame not to allow you beer, with all your heavy work,"
sympathised Helen.

"I get beer-money," admitted Mrs. Oates. "Miss Warren's got a bee in her
bonnet about no drink served in the house. But she's like the Professor,
no trouble so long as you leave her with her books. She's not mean--only
you mustn't do a thing what's worth doing. That's her."

That was exactly how Miss Warren had struck Helen--a Grey studious
negation.

Mrs. Oates relieved her feelings by kicking the cellar door, before they
turned away.

"I've promised myself one thing," she said solemnly. "It's this: if ever
I come across the key of this cellar, there'll be a bottle short."

"And the fairies will have drunk it, I suppose?" asked Helen. "Come back
to the fire. I've something thrilling to tell you."

When they were back in the kitchen, however, Mrs. Oates began to
chuckle.

"You've something to tell me. Well, I've something to show you. Look at
these."

She opened one of the cupboards in the dresser, and pointed to a line of
empty bottles.

"What Mr. Rice calls 'dead men.' Many's the bottle of gin or stout he's
brought back from the _Bull_."

"He's kind," admitted Helen. "There's something about him. Pity he's
such a rotter."

"He's not as black as he's painted," said Mrs. Oates.

"He was sent down from his school in Oxford for mucking about with a
girl. But he told me, one night, as he was more sinned against than
sinning. He's not really partial to girls."

"But he flirts with Mrs. Newton."

"Just his fun. When she says 'A,' he says 'B.' That's all."

Helen laughed as she looked into the glowing heart of the fire. Unknown
to her, fresh cracks had been started in the walls of her fortress. As
she stroked the ginger cat, who responded with a startling rumble, her
recent experience seemed very remote.

"I promised you a tale," she said. "Well--'believe me or believe me
not'--when I was coming through the plantation, I met--the strangler."

It was certain that she did not believe her own story, although she
exaggerated the details, in order to impress Mrs. Oates. It was such a
thin-spun theme--a man hiding behind a tree, with no sequel to prove a
dark motive.

She was not the only one to be incredulous. In a cottage half-way up the
hill-side, a dark-eyed girl was looking at herself in a small mirror,
spotted with damp. Her face was rosy from moist mountain air, and her
expression was eager and rebellious.

Here was one who welcomed life with both hands. She perched a scarlet
hand-knitted beret at a perilous angle on her short black hair, powdered
her cheeks, and added unnecessary lip-stick to her moist red lips,
humming, as an accompaniment to her actions.

As she looked around the small room, with the low bulging white plaster
ceiling and cracked walls, the limp muslin curtain before the shuttered
window, her desire grew. She told herself that she was sick of
confinement and the cheesy smell of indoors. She had stayed in, night
after night, until she was fed up, and willing to chance any
hypothetical criminal. She yearned for the cheery bar of the _Bull_,
with a young man or two, a glass of cider, and the magic of the
wireless.

She buttoned up her red leather coat and put on Wellington boots, before
her stealthy descent down the creaking stairs. When she slipped through
the cottage door her heart beat faster, but only with excitement. She
was as used to the narrow, pitchy lane, which dropped down precipitously
to the valley, as a Londoner is to Piccadilly. Familiarity with
loneliness had robbed it of any terror, just as immunity from attack had
resulted in perfect nerve. Without fear or foreboding, she hurried down
the stony hillside, in sure-footed haste.

When she reached the plantation, she felt that she had nearly reached
the goal of her desire. A bare mile of level ground separated her from
the bar of the _Bull_. Civilisation was represented by the Summit, which
was so close to her that she could hear a broadcast of Jack Hylton's
band.

Like most Welsh girls, she had a true ear and a musical voice. She took
up the tune, jumbling the words, but singing with the passionate
exaltation due to a revivalist hymn.

"Love is the sweetest thing.
No bird upon the wing"

The rain drove down upon her face, in steady slanting skeins, through
the partial screen of the larches, and the hard ground under her feet
was growing slimed, in spite of its carpet of spines. Happy, healthy,
and unwise, she hurried to meet the future. Careless of weather, and one
with the elements, she sang her way through the wood--youth at its peak.

Her sight was excellent, so that she could distinguish the lane of
single trees, where the plantation thinned towards its end. But her
imagination was more blunted than Helen's, so that she did notice that
one of the trees was apparently rootless, for it shifted behind the
trunks of its fellows.

Had she remarked it, she would have distrusted the evidence of her eyes.
Common sense told her that trees did not move from their stations. So
she hurried on, and sang yet louder.

"I only pray that life may bring
Love's sweet story to you."

When she reached the last tree, it suddenly changed into a man. Its
branches were clutching arms. But still she did not believe.

For she knew that these things do not happen.



CHAPTER IV. ANCIENT LIGHTS



"The tree moved," declared Helen, finishing her story, in the safety of
the kitchen. "And--to my horror--I saw that it was a man. He was waiting
there, like a tiger ready to spring on his prey."

"Go on." Mrs. Oates was openly derisive. "I've seen that tree, myself.
Often seen him, I have, waiting for Ceridwen, when she used to work
here. And was never the same tree twice."

"Ceridwen?" repeated Helen.

"Yes. She lives in a cottage half-way up the hill. A pretty girl, but
she would mix her cloths. Old Lady Warren couldn't abide her. She said
as how her feet smelt, and when she dusted under her bed, her ladyship
used to wait for her, with her stick, until she crawled out, so as to
fetch her a clout on the head."

Helen burst out laughing. Life might ignore her, but she remained
acutely conscious and appreciative of the eternal comedy.

"The old darling gets better and better," she declared. "I wish you'd
give me the job of dusting under her bed. She'd find me a bit too quick
for her."

"So was Ceridwen. She used to bait the old girl shooting out when she
wasn't expecting her. But she got her, in the end. She fetched her such
a crack that her father came and took her away."

"She certainly makes--What's that?"

Helen broke off to listen. Once again the sound was repeated--an
insistent tapping on a window-pane. Although she could not locate it, it
seemed to be not far away.

"Is someone knocking?" she asked.

Mrs. Oates listened also.

"It must be the passage window," Mrs. Oates said. "The catch is loose.
Oates did talk of mending it."

"That doesn't sound too safe," objected Helen.

"Now, miss, don't worry. The shutter's put up. No on can get in."

But, as the wind rose, the monotonous rattle and beat continued, at
irregular intervals. It got on Helen's nerves, so that she could not
settle down to her tea.

"It's a miserable night," she said. "If that tree was waiting for
Ceridwen, I don't envy her."

"He's caught her by now," chuckled Mrs. Oates. "She won't be noticing
weather no more."

"There it goes a again...Have you a screwdriver?"

Helen's eyes lit up as she spoke, for she had a mania for small
mechanical jobs.

"You see, Mrs. Oates, this sound will irritate you," she explained. "And
then you'll spoil the dinner. And then we shall have indigestion. I'll
see if I can't put it right."

"What a one you are to look for work," grumbled Mrs. Oates, as she
followed Helen through the scullery.

The smallish window was at the end of the passage, close to the scullery
door. As Helen unbarred the shutter, a gust of wind struck it, like a
blow, and dashed drops of rain against the streaming glass.

Together, the big woman and the small girl, stood, peering out into the
garden. They could see only a black huddle of shrubs and a gleam of
thrashing boughs.

"Doesn't it look creepy?" said Helen. "I wonder if I can fix this catch.
Have you any small nails?"

"I'll see if I can find some. Oates is a terror for nails."

Mrs. Oates lumbered through the scullery, leaving Helen alone staring
out into the wet garden. There were no bushes, on this side, to give the
impression of a crawling greyness creeping towards the house; the night
seemed to have become solid and definite--clear-cut chunks of
threatening blackness.

It inspired a spirit of defiance in Helen.

"Come on--if you dare," she cried aloud.

The answer to her challenge was immediate--a piercing scream from the
kitchen.

Helen's heart leaped at the thin terror-stricken wail. There was only
room for one thought in her mind. The maniac was lurking in hiding, and
she had sent the poor unsuspecting Mrs. Oates into his trap.

"He's got her," she thought, as she caught up the bar and dashed into
the kitchen.

Mrs. Oates greeted her with another scream, but there was no sign of the
source of her terror, although she was on the verge of hysteria.

"A mouse," she yelled. "It went over there."

Helen stared at her in blank incredulity.

"You can't be frightened of a little mouse. It isn't done. Old stuff,
you know."

"But they make me crawl all over," whimpered Mrs. Oates.

"In that case, I suppose murder will have to be committed. A pity. Here,
Ginger, Ginger."

Helen called, in vain, to the cat, who continued to wash with an
affectation of complete detachment. Mrs. Oates apologised for him. "He's
a civil cat, but he can't abide mice. Oates would swat it."

"If that's a hint, I'm not going to swat it. But I'll frighten it away."

With her sensitised reaction to any situation, she was conscious of
anti-climax, when she went down on her knees and began to beat the floor
with her bar. Just whenever the drama seemed to be working up to a
moment of tension, the crisis always eluded her and degenerated into
farce.

Not until the night was over could she trace the repercussions of each
trivial incident and realise that the wave of fear which flooded the
house, washed back to an insignificant source.

She could see her quarry--a small and rather attractive rodent--frisking
in the distance, with the assurance of an old resident.

"Where's its hole?" she whispered.

"In that corner," panted Mrs. Oates. "Oates did say as how he'd stop it
up."

Helen was driving the mouse homewards when she started at the sound of
footsteps on the back-stairs.

"Who's that?" she cried.

"Not him," laughed Mrs. Oates. "When he comes you'll not hear him on the
way. He'll creep. That sounds like Mr. Rice."

As she spoke the door was pushed open, and Stephen Rice, carrying a
suitcase, entered the kitchen. He stared at the sight of the demure Miss
Capel on her knees, with her hair falling in a mane across her eyes.

"What's this?" he asked. "Red Indians, or a crawling party? Count me
in."

"I'm chasing a mouse," explained Helen.

"Great sport. I'll help."

"No, I don't want to catch it." Helen rose and placed the bar on the
table. "I think he's gone now."

Stephen sat down and looked around him.

"I always feel at home, here," he said. "It's the one room I like in
this horrible house. Mrs. Oates and I hold our prayer-meetings here."

"Where's your dog?" asked Helen.

"In my room. Miss Warren did not come to tea, unfortunately. So the
row's postponed."

"Why d' you have one at all?" asked Helen. "You're leaving tomorrow. I
expect Miss Warren would prefer not to know."

"No." Stephen stuck out his prominent chin. "I'd rather come out in the
open. Noble of me, when I know the heroic Newton will enlighten her
darkness in any case."

"He wouldn't tell?" cried Helen incredulously.

"Wouldn't he? To be frank, Otto was not a blazing success. The poor lad
is not used to afternoon tea. Like his master, he's happier in the
kitchen."

"But Mrs. Newton must have fallen for him," insisted Helen, who argued
along the familiar lines or "love me, love my dog."

"If she did, she controlled her passion." Stephen opened his empty
suitcase and turned to Mrs. Oates. "Where are the empties?" he asked. "I
thought I'd lift them now, and lug them over to the _Bull_ tonight, to
save that poor delicate husband of yours."

"And I suppose you want to say 'Good-bye' to your young lady there?"
Mrs. Oates winked at Helen, who--enlightened by her previous
gossip--understood the allusion to to daughter of the licensee of the
_Bull_. Apparently, this young lady was not only the patron-saint of the
bar, but the magnet that reassembled the sparse male population of the
district.

Mrs. Oates took advantage of her privileged position to ask another more
personal question.

"And what will your other lady say, if you spend your last night away?"

"My other--what?" demanded Stephen.

"Mrs. Newton."

"Mrs. Newton Warren is a respectable married lady. She will naturally
pass the evening in the company of her lawful husband, working out
mathematical problems.

"Did you have a good tea?"

Helen did not hear the question, for she suddenly glimpsed an exciting
possibility.

"Did Miss Warren have her tea up in the bedroom?" she asked.

"I suppose so," replied Stephen.

"Then she's been up there for ages. I wonder if I might, offer to
relieve her?"

"If you do," advised Stephen, "see that she's supplied with cushions.
Unless, of course, you're expert in dodging."

"But does she always throw things at people?" asked Helen incredulously.

"It's the only way she knows of expressing her temperament."

"Well, it doesn't matter. I think she sounds so alive for an old woman.
I admire that."

"You'll be disillusioned," prophesied Stephen. "She's a vile-tempered
old cuss, with horrible manners. When I was presented to Her Majesty,
she was eating an orange, and she spat out all the pips--to impress me."

He broke off to laugh at a sudden recollection.

"All the same," he said, "I'd love to have seen her chuck the basin at
that pie-faced nurse."

"But, surely, that was an accident. She couldn't have known she was
going to hit her."

Mrs. Oates looked up, with streaming eyes, from her task of peeling
onions.

"Oh, no, miss," she said. "Lady Warren wouldn't miss. When she was
younger, she spent all her time tramping over the fields, shooting
rabbits and birds. They said she went to bed with her gun."

"Then she's been here a long time?" asked Helen.

She believed that her curiosity was about to be given a real meal, for
Mrs. Oates' manner hinted at gossip.

Stephen rolled a cigarette, the cat purred on the rug, the mouse washed
his face in the safety of his hole. Inside was firelight and
tranquillity--outside, the rising storm.

A gust of wind smashed against the corner of the house, and spattered
the unbarred shutter, before the passage window, with the remnants of
its original fury. Slowly, as though pushed open by invisible fingers,
the casement swung outwards over the garden. The house was open to the
night.

It looked in, through the gap, and down the darkness of the passage. Its
far end stretched away into shadows. Round the bend, was the warren of
the offices--a honeycomb of cells, where a man could hide.

Inside the kitchen, Mrs. Oates electrified her audience.

"They do say," she said dramatically, "as old Lady Warren shot her
husband."

"No," gasped Stephen and Helen together.

"Yes," declared Mrs. Oates. "It's an old wives' tale now, but my mother
told me all about it. Old Sir Roger was just such a one as the
Professor, quiet, and always shut up with his books. He made a lot of
money with some invention. He built the Summit, so as to have no
neighbours. And Lady Warren couldn't abide It. She was always jawing him
about it, and they had one awful quarrel, in his study. She was
overheard to threaten to shoot him for vermin. A few minutes later he
was found shot dead, with her rook rifle.

"Looks pretty bad," murmured Stephen.

"Yes, everyone thought she'd stand in the Dock," agreed Mrs. Oates.
"There was some nasty questions asked at the Inquest. She said as how it
was an accident, and her clever lawyer got her off. But there was so
much feeling about it that she went abroad--though she'd have gone,
anyhow, as she fair hated the house."

"Was it shut up afterwards?" asked Helen.

"No, the Professor left Oxford, and came here, and he's been just the
same as his father before him--always staying in, and never going out.
Old Lady Warren only came back when she said she was ill."

"What's the matter with her?" asked Helen.

Mrs. Oates pursed up her lips and shook her head.

"Temper," she said firmly.

"Oh, but Mrs. Oates, she must be ill, to have a nurse, and for the
doctor to keep her in bed."

"He reckons she's less trouble there. And she reckons she can give more
trouble there. It's a fair game for her to drive the nurses away, so as
to get fresh ones in to bully."

"But Miss Warren told me that the Professor was anxious about her
heart," persisted Helen.

"Ah, but a man don't forget the mother, that bore him," declared Mrs.
Oates, lapsing into sentiment.

"But she's only his step-mother," objected Stephen. "She has no
children. Still, she must be expected to croak because the vultures are
gathering. Simone told me that the old girl has made a will, leaving her
money to charities. She has a nasty perverted taste, and, apparently,
likes Newton. Anyway, she makes him an allowance, which will cease at
her death. That's why he's down here."

"His pa sent for him," explained Mrs. Oates.

Helen thought of the Professor's glacial eye and Miss Warren's detached
manner. It was impossible to believe that they were swayed by financial
considerations.

"Hullo," said Stephen suddenly, as he swung himself up on the table.
"What's this?"

He drew from under him a wooden bar, which Helen took from him, rather
guiltily.

"Sorry," she said. "It belongs to the shutter in the passage. I'm glad
you reminded me of it. I'll try and fix the window."

After what she had heard, she felt eager to finish the job, and get
upstairs, to the blue room, as quickly as possible. She made a makeshift
fastening with some string and a peg, and then hurried back to the
kitchen.

To her surprise, Stephen was peeling onions with Mrs. Oates.

"She always makes me work," he complained. "It's her way of explaining a
man in the kitchen, when Oates comes home. I say, isn't he very late? I
bet you a fiver he's run off with the pretty new nurse."

Mrs. Oates snorted.

"If she's like the last, she'd have to hold his nose, to get him to kiss
her. Are you really going to sit with Lady Warren, miss?"

"I am going to ask if I may," replied Helen.

"Then, take my warning, and be on the watch out against her. It's my
belief she's not as helpless as they make out, by a long way. I'm sure
she can walk, same as me. She's got something up her sleeve. Besides,
have you heard her voice, when she forgets?" Helen suddenly remembered
the bass bellow from the sick room. Here was a situation choked with
mystery and drama. In her eagerness to be in the thick of it she almost
ran to the door.

"I've tied up the window," she said. "Now, we're safely locked up, for
the night."



CHAPTER V. THE BLUE ROOM



As Helen mounted the stairs to the blue room, she felt an odd stir of
expectancy. It took her back to childish days, when she neglected her
toys in favour of an invisible companion--Mr. Poke.

Although she played by herself for hours, in a corner of the communal
sitting room, it was plain to her parents, that she was not indulging in
a solitary game. She did everything with a partner.

And at twilight, when the firelight sent tall shadows flickering on the
walls, she carried on an interminable conversation with her hero.

At first, her mother disliked the uncanny element in the society
affected by her small daughter; but when she realised that Helen had
discovered the best and cheapest of playfellows--imagination--she
accepted the wonderful Mr. Poke and used to ask questions about his
prowess, to which there was no limit.

The staircase was lit by a pendant globe, which swung from a beam which
spanned the central well. The first floor was between this light and the
illumination from the hall, so that the landing was rather dark. Facing
the flight of stairs, was an enormous ten-foot mirror, framed in
tarnished gilt carving, and supported by a marble console table.

As Helen approached it, her reflection came to meet her, so that a small
white face rose up from the dim depths of the glass, like a corpse
emerging from deep lake-water, on the seventh day.

The thrill which ran through her veins, in response, seemed to her, an
omen. Miss Warren came to the door, in answer to her knock. Her pale
face looked dragged and devitalised after hours of imprisonment with her
step-mother.

"Has the new nurse come?" she asked.

"No." Helen was aggressively cheerful. "And we don't expect her for
hours and hours. Mrs. Oates says the rain has made the hills difficult
for the car."

"Quite," agreed Miss Warren wearily. "Please let me know directly she
arrives. She must relieve me as soon as she has had something to eat."

It was Helen's chance--and she took it.

"Might I sit with Lady Warren?" she asked.

Miss Warren hesitated before her reply. She knew that it would be
against her brother's wish to entrust Lady Warren to an untrained
stranger; but the girl seemed reliant and conscientious.

"Thank you, Miss Capel," she replied. "It would be kind. Lady Warren is
asleep, so you will only have to sit very still, and watch her."

She crossed the landing to her own room, and then turned to give further
advice.

"If she wakes and wants something you can't find, or if you are in any
difficulty, come, at once, to me."

Helen promised, even while she was conscious that she would appeal to
Miss Warren only as a last resource. She meant to cope with any
situation on her own initiative, and she hoped that the need would
arise.

The tide of her curiosity was running strongly when, at long last, she
entered the blue room. It was a huge, handsome apartment, furnished with
a massive mahogany suite, made sombre by reason of the prevailing dark
blue colour of the walls, carpet and curtains. A dull red fire glowed in
the steel grate. Although its closeness was mitigated with
lavender-water, the atmosphere smelt faintly of rotten apples. Lady
Warren lay in the big bed. She wore a dark-purple silk quilted
dressing-jacket, and her head was propped high with pillows. Her eyes
were closed and she was breathing heavily. The first glance told Helen
that Stephen was right in his description. There was no sign of grand
character in this bed-ridden old woman. The lines which scored her face,
like an ancient map, were all plainly traced by bad temper and egotism.
Her grey hair was cut short in a thick untidy shock and her nose was
suspiciously red.

Stealing across the floor, Helen sat down in the low chair by the fire.
She noticed that each coal was wrapped in white tissue paper, so that
the scuttle appeared to be filled with snowballs. As she knew this
transformation was a means to ensure quiet, she took the hint, and
remained motionless, as though she were furniture.

Lady Warren's breathing continued with the volume and regularity of a
steam-engine. Presently Helen began to suspect that it was a special
performance for her benefit.'

"She's not really asleep," she thought. "She's foxing."

The breathing went on--but nothing happened. Yet Helen was aware of the
quiver of her pulse which always heralded Mr. Poke's approach.'

Someone was watching her.

She had to turn her head round, in order to look at the bed. When she
did so, Lady Warren's lids were tightly closed. With a joyous sense of
playing a new game, Helen waited for a chance to catch her unawares.

Presently, after many feints and failures, she proved too quick for Lady
Warren. Looking up unexpectedly, she caught her in the act of spying.
Her lids were slit across by twin black crescents of extraordinary
brightness, which peered out at her.

They shut immediately, only to open again, as the invalid realised that
further subterfuge was vain.

"Come here," she said, in a faint fluttering voice.

With a memory of Mrs. Oates' warning, Helen advanced warily. She looked
a small and insignificant person--a pale girl in a blue pinafore dress,
which made her fade into her background.

"Come nearer," commanded Lady Warren.

Helen obeyed, although her eyes wandered to the objects on the
bed-table. She wondered which missile the invalid might choose to hurl
at her head, and stretched out her hand for the biggest medicine bottle.

"Put that down," snarled her ladyship faintly. "That's mine."

"Oh, I am sorry." Helen spoke eagerly. "I'm like that. I hate people to
touch my things."

Feeling that there was a link between them, she stood boldly by the bed,
and smiled down at the invalid.

"You're very small," remarked Lady Warren, at last breaking her silence.
"No style. Very unimpressive. I thought my grandson would have shown
better taste when he chose a wife."

As she listened, Helen realised that Simone had refused to enter the
blue room, although Newton had urged her to do so.

"He showed excellent taste," she said. "His wife is marvellous. I'm not
her."

"Then--who are you?" asked Lady Warren.

"The help. Miss Capel."

A ripple of some strong emotion passed over the old woman's face,
leaving the black crescent eyes fixed and the lips hanging apart.

"She looks afraid," thought Helen. "But what's she afraid of? It--it
must be me."

Lady Warren's next words, however, gave the lie to this exciting
possibility. Her voice strengthened.

"Go away," she shouted, in the bass voice of a man.

Startled by the change, Helen turned and ran from the invalid, expecting
every second, to feel the crash of a bottle on her head. But, before she
reached the door, she was recalled by a shout.

"You little fool, come back."

Quivering with expectation at this new turn, Helen crossed to the bed.
The old lady began to talk in such a faint, whine, that her words were
almost inaudible.

"Get out of the house. Too many trees."

"Trees?" repeated Helen, as her mind slipped back to the last tree in
the plantation.

"Trees," repeated Lady Warren. "They stretch out their branches and
knock at the window. They try to get in. When it's dark, they move.
Creeping up to the house. Go away."

As she listened, Helen felt a sense of kinship with the old woman. It
was strange that she, too, had stood at the window, at twilight, and
watched the invasion of the misted shrubs. Of course, it was all
imagination; but that fact alone indicated a common touch of "Mr. Poke."

In any case, she wanted to use the trees as a liaison between Lady
Warren and herself. It was one of her small failings that, although she
liked to succeed in her own line, she liked still better to make a
success of someone else's job. She proceeded to try and make a conquest
of Lady Warren.

"How strange," she said. "I've thought exactly the same as you."

Unfortunately, Lady Warren resented her words as impertinence.

"I don't want to hear your thoughts," Lady Warren whined. "Don't dare to
presume, because I'm helpless. What's your name?"

"Helen Capel," was the dejected reply.

"How old are you?"

"Twenty-three."

"Liar. Nineteen."

Helen was startled by her acumen, as her employers had always accepted
her official age. "It's not exactly a lie," she explained. "I feel I'm
entitled to put on my age, because I'm old in experience. I began to
earn my own living when I was fourteen."

Lady Warren showed no signs of being touched.

"Why?" she asked. "Are you a love-child?"

"Certainly not," replied Helen indignantly. "My parents were married in
church. But they couldn't provide for me. They were unlucky."

"Dead?"

"Yes."

"Then they're lucky."

In spite of her subordinate position, Helen always found the necessary
courage to protest when any vital principle of her Creed was assaulted.

"No," Helen protested. "Life is wonderful. I always wake up, just glad
to be alive."

Lady Warren grunted before she continued her catechism.

"Drink?" she asked.

"No."

"Any men?"

"No chance--worse luck."

Lady Warren did not join in her laugh. Stared at Helen so rigidly that
the black slits of her eyes appeared to congeal. Some scheme was being
spun amid the cobwebs of her mind.

The clock ticked away the silence and the fire fell in, with a sudden
spurt of flame.'

"Shall I put on more coal?" asked Helen, anxious to break the spell.

"No. Give me back my teeth."

The request was so startling that Helen, positively jumped. But the next
second, she realised that Lady Warren was only referring to her denture,
which was in an enamel cup, on the bed-table.

She looked away tactfully, while the august invalid fished them out of
the disinfectant, with her fingers, and adjusted them in her gums.
"Helen," she cooed, in a new dove-like voice, "I want you to sleep with
me, tonight."

Helen looked at her, aghast, for the change in her was both grotesque
and horrible. The denture forced her lips apart in a stiff artificial
grin, which gave her an unhuman resemblance to an old waxwork.

"You were afraid of me, without my teeth," Lady Warten told her. "But
you won't be afraid now. I want to take care of you, tonight."

Helen licked her lips nervously.

"But, my lady," said Helen, "the new nurse will sleep with you tonight."

"I'd forgotten the new nurse. Another slut. Well, I'll be ready for her.
But you're to sleep with me. You see, my dear, you're not safe."

As she smiled, Helen was suddenly reminded of the grin of a crocodile.

"I couldn't pass a night alone with her," she thought, even while she
was conscious that her fear was only of her own creation. It was
obviously absurd to be afraid of a bed-ridden old woman.

"I'm afraid I can do nothing without Miss Warren's instructions," she
said.

"My step-daughter's a fool. She doesn't know what's going on in this
house. Trees always trying to get in. Come here, Helen." As Helen
stooped over the bed, she felt her hand caught in a strong grip.

"I want you to get me something," whispered Lady Warren. "It's in the
cupboard at the top of the wardrobe. Get on a chair."

Helen, who was enjoying the rare flavour of an adventure, decided to
humour her.

She climbed on to one of the heavy chairs and stood on her toes, in
order to open the door of the cupboard.

She felt a little doubtful of the commission, as she groped with her
hand, in the dark recess. It was evident that Lady Warren was using her
as a tool, to procure forbidden fruit. With a memory of her inflamed
nose, she suspected a hidden bottle of brandy.

"What is it?" she called.

"A little hard thing, wrapped in a silk scarf," was the disarming reply.

As she spoke, Helen's fingers closed upon something which answered to
the description.

"Is this it?" she asked, springing to the ground.

"Yes." Lady Warren's voice was eager. "Bring it to me."

In the short journey to the bed, Helen was gripped with a sudden fear of
the thing she held. Even under its mufflings, its shape was
unmistakable. It was a revolver. She remembered Lady Warren's dead
rabbits--and also a husband shot dead by accident.'

"I wonder if it's loaded," she thought fearfully. "I can't even tell
which is the dangerous end. I mustn't let her have it. Mrs. Oates warned
me."

"Bring it to me," commanded Lady Warren.

She made no attempt to disguise her excitement. Her fingers shook with
eagerness, as she stretched out her hands.

Helen pretended not to hear. With affected carelessness, she laid down
the revolver on a small table--at a safe distance from the
invalid--before she advanced to the bed.

"Now, you mustn't get worked up," she said soothingly. "It is so bad for
your heart."

Fortunately Lady Warren's attention was distracted by her words.

"What does the doctor say about me?" she asked.

"He says your vitality is wonderful," replied Helen.

"Then he's a fool. I'm a dead woman. But I'm not going to die till I'm
ready."

Her lids closed, so that her eyes were visible only as a narrow black
rim. Her shrivelled face seemed to become a worn-out garment, and she
spoke in the reedy voice of burnt-out forces.

"I've a job. Keep putting it off. Weak of me. But it is a job no one
likes. Is it?"

Helen guessed immediately that she referred to her will.

"No," she replied. "Everyone puts it off."

And then, because she could not resist her interest in the affairs of
others, she added a bit of advice.

"But we all of us have to do it. It must be done."

But Lady Warren was not listening. The eclipse was rapidly passing, for
her eyes grew alert as they slanted across to the small bundle on the
table.

"Bring. it to me," she said.

"No," replied Helen. "Better not."

"Fool. What are you afraid of? It's only my spectacle case."

"Yes, I know it is. I'm ever so sorry, my lady, but I'm only a machine.
I have to obey Miss Warren's orders. And she told me I was only to sit
and watch."

It was plain that Lady Warren was not used to opposition. Her eyes
blazed, and her fingers hooked to talons, as she clawed her throat.

"Go," she gasped. "Get--Miss--Warren."

Helen rushed from the room--almost glad of the attack, since the crisis
of the revolver was postponed. As she reached the door, she looked back
and saw that Lady Warren had collapsed upon her pillows.'

A second later, the invalid raised her head. There was a stir amid the
bedclothes, and two feet, in bed-socks, emerged from under the
eider-down, as Lady Warren slipped out of bed.



CHAPTER VI. ILLUSION



Her heart beating fast with mingled exhilaration and fear, Helen hurried
to Miss Warren's room. For the first time in her life, she was up
against unknown possibilities. Unlike the other houses in which she had
worked, the Summit provided a background.

It was true that Mrs. Oates had heartlessly plucked the mystery from the
last tree in the plantation, so that Helen was forced to accept him as
the yokel lover of a rustic beauty; yet there remained material for
macabre drama in the savage muffled landscape and the overhanging shadow
of murder.

The old woman, too, with her overtures and her gleaming artificial
smile, supplied a touch of real horror. She might be only a bed-ridden
invalid, but the fact remained that she was under suspicion of having
sent her husband prematurely to heaven or to hell.

Her sting might be drawn, but her desires were still lethal. Helen had
proof of this in the incident of the revolver.

Her thoughts, however, slipped back to practical subjects, when, as she
turned the handle of Miss Warren's room, it once again slipped round in
her grasp.

"I really must get at it the instant I have a chance," she promised
herself.

Miss Warren was sitting at her bureau, under the green light. Her eyes
were fixed upon her book.

"Well?" she asked wearily, as, Helen entered.

"I'm sorry to disturb you," began Helen, "but Lady War--"

Before she could finish her sentence, Miss Warren was out of her chair,
and crossing the room with the ungainly gait of a giraffe.

In her element, Helen followed her to the blue room. Lady Warren was
lying as she had left her, with closed eyes and puffing lips. The
revolver, wrapped in the silk handkerchief, was still on the kidney
table, and the width of the room remote from the bed.

Yet there was some change, Helen, who was observant, noticed the fact,
at once, and, in her second survey, traced it to its cause. When she had
gone to fetch Miss Warren, the bed-clothes were disordered. Now, the
sheet was drawn down over the eider-down, as neatly as though it had
been arranged by a hospital nurse.

"Miss Capel," said Miss Warren, who was bending over the prostrate
figure of her step-mother, "fetch the oxygen-cylinder."

Helen, who was always ready to experiment with unfamiliar properties,
hurried to lug it across to the bed. She thoughtfully unscrewed the top,
and managed to get a whiff of air, like a mountain breeze, before she
surrendered it to Miss Warren.

Presently, Lady Warren revived under their joint ministrations. To
Helen's awakening suspicions, it was an artistic performance, with
calculated gradations of sighs, groans and fluttering lids.

Directly her eyes were open, she glared at Helen.

"Send her away," she said weakly.

Miss Warren caught Helen's eye.

"Please go, Miss Capel. I'm sorry."

Forgetful of her pose, Lady Warren turned on her stepdaughter, like some
fish-wife.

"Idiot. Send her packing. Tonight."

She closed her eyes again, and murmured, "Doctor. I want the doctor."

"He'll be here presently," Miss Warren assured her.

"Why is he always late?" complained the invalid.

"Because he likes to see how you are, the last thing," explained Miss
Warren ungrammatically.

"It's because he's a slacker," snarled Lady Warren. "I must change my
doctor. Blanche. That girl wasn't Newton's wife. Why doesn't she come to
see me?"

"You are not strong enough for visitors."

"That's not it. I know. She's afraid of me."

The idea seemed to please Lady Warren, for her face puckered up in a
smile. Helen, who was watching, from a safe distance, thought that she
looked positively evil. In that moment, she could almost believe in the
old story of a murdered husband.

Her eye fell on the nurse's small single-bed.

"I wouldn't be that nurse, for all the money in the world," she
shuddered.

Suddenly, Miss Warren became aware that she was still in the room, for
she crossed over to her corner.

"I can manage by myself, Miss Capel"

Her tone was so cold that Helen tried to justify herself.

"I hope you don't think I did anything to annoy her. She changed all of
a sudden. Indeed, she took a fancy to me. Anyway, she kept asking me to
sleep with her, tonight."

Miss Warren's expression was incredulous, although her words were
polite.

"I am sure that you were kind and tactful."

Her glance towards the door was a hint of dismissal, and Helen turned to
go; but her head was humming with confused suspicions which fought for
utterance. Although experience had taught her that interference is
usually resented, she felt that she must warn Miss Warren.

"I think there is something you ought to know," she said, lowering her
voice. "Lady Warren asked me to get her something from the little
cupboard above the wardrobe mirror."

"Why do you consider that important?" asked Miss Warren.

"Because it was a revolver."

Helen achieved her effect. Miss Warren looked directly at her, with a
startled expression.

"Where is it now?" she asked.

"On that table."

Miss Warren swooped down upon the small parcel with the avidity of some
bird of prey. Her long white fingers loosened a fold of the silk
wrapping. Then she held it out, so that Helen might see it.

It was a large spectacle case.

As she stared at it, Helen was swept off her feet by the tidal wave of
an exciting possibility.

"That is not the same shape," she declared. "I felt the other. It had
jutting-out bits."

"What exactly are you hinting at?"

"I think that, when I went to fetch you, Lady Warren hid the revolver
and put this in its place."

"And are you aware that my mother has heart-disease, and has been unable
to move for months?"

All hope of conviction died, as Helen looked at Miss Warren's sceptical
face. Its fluid lines seemed to have been suddenly arrested by a sharp
frost.

"I'm sorry if I've made a mistake," she faltered. "Only, I thought I
ought to keep nothing back."

"I am sure you were trying to be helpful," Miss 'Warren told her. "But
it only hinders to imagine stupid impossibilities." She added, with a
grim smile, "I suppose, like all girls, you go to the Pictures."

In the circumstances, her reproach was almost painful irony. She seemed
to be divided from Helen, not only by space, but by time. "She's
prehistoric," thought the girl. Her small figure appeared actually
shrunken as she went out of the blue room.

Besides being cheated out of the recognition, which was her due, she did
not feel satisfied with Miss Warren's acceptance of the revolver
incident.

"The customer is always right," she reminded herself, as she walked down
the stairs. "But there's one comfort. Now that Lady Warren's soured on
me, there will be no more talk about sleeping in her room."

Luckily, in spite of her discouragement, her sense of duty remained
unimpaired. As Oates was late, she decided to take on his job of laying
the dinner-table.

At the sound of footsteps, the drawing-room door was opened, and Simone
looked out--her eyes parched with longing. Instantly, her husband's head
reared itself over her shoulder, like a serpent.

Simone showed no signs of discomfiture. She merely shrugged and smiled.
"So faithful," she murmured, as she closed the door.

Braced by this glimpse of the clash of human passions, Helen went into
the dining-room. For the first time, she felt a certain degree of
sympathy with Simone.

"It would get on my nerves to be followed about, like that" she thought.

It was evident that Newton's jealousy was working up to
saturation-point; with Stephen's departure, he would probably become
normal again, Meantime, he plainly meant to give his wife no opportunity
of a final interview with the pupil.

In Helen's eyes, his obsession amounted almost to mania, as she
considered the stolid indifference with which Stephen opposed Simone's
passion, He did not run from her pursuit; he merely shoved her away.
Even then, he was in the kitchen, helping Mrs, Oates. He had been
offered romance--and he chose onions.

The dining-room was the finest room in the Summit, with an elabourate
ceiling of dark carved wood, and a massive fireplace and over-mantel to
correspond.

The great windows were screened with thick crimson curtains, while dark
red paper covered the walls.

Helen crossed to the walnut sideboard, where the glass and silver was
kept, and took a table-cloth from one of the drawers.

From years of practice, Helen could lay a table in her sleep. As she
mechanically sorted out spoons and forks, her mind was busy in
speculation, Although she was denied the privilege of argument with an
employer, she was positive that, during her absence, there had been some
monkey-work in the blue room.

"I'm sure Mrs. Oates is right," she thought. "Lady Warren is not
bed-ridden. She got up, and then she tried to cover her traces by
tidying the bed. Well, she overdid it. I'd like to talk it over with Dr.
Parry,"

Dr. Parry was clever, young and unconventional. The first time he met
Helen, he had shown a direct interest in her welfare, which she had
accepted on a medical basis. He asked her personal questions, and seemed
apprehensive of the influence of her surroundings on her youth.

What appealed to her most was his unprofessional gossip about his
patient.

"Her heart's in a shocking state," he told her. "Still, hearts are
sporting organs, She might climb Snowdon and be all right, and the next
time she sneezed it might finish her off. But--she keeps me guessing. I
sometimes wonder if she is so helpless. To my mind, she is an old
surprise-packet."

Helen remembered his words as she trotted to and fro, between the table
and the sideboard. But her ears still burned whenever she recalled the
irony of Miss Warren's voice.

"Well, I've warned her," she thought. "It's her pigeon. But I would like
to know where that revolver is. You won't catch me in that room again,
if I can help it."

Although she tried to listen for the sound of the car, the fury of the
storm prevented her from hearing the hum of the engine, It was not until
she caught Mrs. Oates' welcome to her husband, that she realised that
the new nurse had come.

She rushed across the room and opened the door, but was too late to see
her face, for she was in the act of following her guides through the
entry to the kitchen stairs. Her back view, however, was impressive, for
she was unusually tall.

Helen felt a burst of confidence.

"She's not a weak link, anyway," she decided. "She'd be an awkward
customer for him to tackle."

As she lingered in the hall, she remembered the loose handle of Miss
Warren's door: She had watched where Oates kept his handful of tools,
and discovered that he left them where he had used them, With this clue
to guide her, she found the box stuck away in a corner of the
boot-closet, in the hall.

As this was not a legitimate job, she crept up the stairs to the first
floor landing, and knelt before the door. She had hardly begun her
investigations, when a sudden sound made her look up.

As she did so, she was the victim of an illusion. She was sure that the
door across the landing, leading from the back-stairs, opened and shut
again, giving her a glimpse of the face of a stranger.

It passed, like the dissolving memory of a dream, yet it left a horror
in her mind, as though she had received a vision of elemental evil.

Even while she stared in stunned bewilderment, she realised that a door
had actually opened and that the Professor was advancing towards her.

"It must have been the Professor," she thought. "It must. I believe it
looked like him. Some trick of light or shadow altered his expression.
It's so dark here."

Even while she clung to this commonplace explanation, her reason
rejected it. At the back of her mind remained a picture of the spiral of
the back-stairs. The two staircases of the Summit offered special
chances to anyone who wished to hide.

She reminded herself that no one could get in during the daytime.
Besides, the house was so full of people that it would be impossible for
anyone to escape notice. The intruder would have to know the habits and
time-table of all the inmates.

Suddenly she remembered that Mrs. Oates had commented on the supernormal
cunning of a criminal maniac.

He would know.

A shiver ran down her spine, as she wondered if she ought to tell the
Professor of her experience. It was her duty, if any unauthorised person
was secreted in the house. But, as she opened her lips, the memory of
her recent encounter with Miss Warren made her afraid of appearing
officious.

Although the Professor's eyes seemed to reduce her to the usual
essential gases, the sight of his conventional dinner clothes acted as a
tonic. His shirt-front gleamed, his black tie was formal, his grey hair
was brushed back from his intellectual brow.

Although he was rigid where his sister was fluid, he inspired her with
the same sense of unhuman companionship.

Suddenly aware that he might suspect her of spying through a bedroom
keyhole, she broke into an explanation of the defective door-handle.

"Tell Oates to see to it, please," he said, with an absent nod.

Toned by the incident, Helen resolved to test her nerve by a descent of
the back-stairs. When she opened the landing door, and looked down the
spiral, it looked a trap, corkscrewing down to depths of darkness. But
her courage did not desert her until the last flight, which she nearly
leaped, at a sudden memory of a seared, distorted face.



CHAPTER VII. THE NEW NURSE



When Helen entered the kitchen, she was greeted by the explosions of
splattering fat. Although the table was crowded with materials for
dinner--in different stages of preparation--while vegetables bubbled on
the range, Mrs. Oates fried fish, juggled with her saucepans, and dried
her husband's wet things over the boiler. In spite of the seeming
confusion, she took these interludes in her stride, without loss of
head, or temper.

Oates, in his grey woollen cardigan, was eating a huge meal in the
corner, which his wife had cleared for him. He was a good-natured giant
of a man, with the build of a prize-fighter.

At the sight of his small honest eyes, Helen's heart leaped in real
welcome. Like his wife, he always appeared to her as a tower of
strength.

"I'm so glad you've come back," she told him. "You're as good as three
men about the house."

Oates smiled sheepishly as he tried to return the compliment.

"Thank you for laying my table, miss," he said.

"Is it still raining heavily?" went on Helen.

"Not near so much," interposed Mrs. Oates bitterly. "Oates brought most
of it in with him."

Oates poured Worcester sauce over his fish, and changed the subject.

"Wait till you see what I've brought back with me," he chuckled.

"You mean--the new nurse?" asked Helen.

"Yes, the little piece I picked up at the Nursing Home. By the look of
her, she's as good as another man."

"Is she nice?"

"As nasty a bit of work as ever I've come across. Talks with plums in
her mouth, and kept me in my place. Well, if she's a lady, I'm Greta
Garbo."

"Where is she?" enquired Helen curiously.

"I put a meal for her in the sitting-room," replied Mrs. Oates.

"My room?"

Mrs. Oates exchanged a smile with her husband. Helen's sense of
ownership was a perpetual source of amusement to them, because of her
small stature.

"Only for tonight." she said soothingly. "After her wet ride, I thought
she'd rather not wait for the regular dinner."

"I'll go and welcome her," decided Helen, even while she knew that
"inspect" would be more appropriate.

Her own sanctum--a dingy semi-basement room, on the other side of the
kitchen--was originally intended for the servants' hall, in the days
before the domestic drought. Its walls and ceiling had been washed
butter-yellow, in an attempt to lighten the gloom, and it was shabbily
furnished with the overflow of the rest of the house.

Because it had been assigned to Helen, she clung to it with jealous
tenacity. Although she took her meals with the family, in recognition of
the fact that her father had done nothing for his living, the
corresponding fact, that she, herself, was a worker, cut her off from
the privilege of relaxing in the drawing-room.

As she entered her refuge, the nurse looked up from her tray. She was a
tall broad-shouldered woman, and was still wearing her outdoor
nursing-uniform, of conventional navy blue. Helen noticed that her
features were large and reddened, and her eyebrows bushy and set close
together.

She had nearly finished her meal and was already smoking, between
mouthfuls.

"Are you Nurse Barker?" asked Helen.

"How do you do?" Nurse Barker spoke in a voice of heavy culture, as she
laid down her cigarette. "Are you one of the Miss Warrens?"

"No, I'm the help, Miss Capel. Have you everything you want?"

"Yes, thanks." Nurse Barker began to smoke again. "But I would like to
ask a question. Why am I put in the kitchen?"

"It's not," explained Helen. "It's my own sitting-room."

"Do you take your meals here, too?"

"No. I take them with the family."

The sudden gleam in the older woman's deep-set eyes told Helen that she
was jealous. Although it was a novelty to be an object of envy, her
instinct advised her to smooth Nurse Barker's ruffled feelings.

"The nurse has her own private sitting-room, on the first floor, which
is far superior to the basement," she said. "Your meals are served
there. Of course, the same as us. Only tonight we thought you'd rather
not wait, as you must be cold and tired."

"I'm more." Nurse Barker spoke in tones of tragic intensity. "I'm
horrified. This place is off the map. I never expected such a lonely
spot."

"You knew it was in the country."

"I expected the usual country-house. They told me my patient was Lady
Warren, which sounded all right."

Helen wondered whether she ought to warn Nurse Barker what was in store
for her.

"I'm afraid you may find her a bit strong-willed," she said. "The last
nurse was frightened of her."

Nurse Barker swallowed a mouthful of smoke, in professional style.

"She won't frighten me," Nurse Barker declared. "She'll find it won't
pay to try her tricks. I keep my patients in order. Influence of course.
I believe in kindness. The Iron hand in the velvet glove."

"I don't think an iron hand sounds very kind, remarked Helen. She looked
up, with a sense of relief, as Mrs. Oates entered. She had temporarily
removed her greasy overall, and was looking forward to gratifying her
social instinct.

"The dinner'll keep now, till it's time to dish-up," she announced. "I
popped in to see if you would fancy a bit of pudding Nurse.
Plum-pudding, or a bit of gooseberry-pie.

"Are the gooseberries bottled?" asked Nurse Barker.

"No, no, our new December crop, fresh-picked from the garden."

"Then--neither, thanks," said Nurse Barker.

"Well--a nice cup of tea?"

"No, thanks." Nurse Barker's accent grew more refined as she asked a
question. "Is there any stimulant?"

Mrs. Oates' eyes gleamed, and she licked her lips.

"Plenty in the cellar," she said. "But the master keeps the key. I'll
speak to him about it, if you like, Nurse."

"No thank you I prefer to tell Miss Warren my own requirements. It is
extraordinary that she has not come downstairs to interview me. Where is
she?"

"Sitting up with her ladyship. I wouldn't be in too great a hurry to go
up there, Nurse. Once you're there, you've got to stay put."

Nurse Barker pondered Mrs. Oates advice."

"I understood it was a single-handed case, she said. But I've come
straight off from duty. I only came to oblige Matron. I ought to have a
good night's rest."

She turned to Helen.

"Are you a good sleeper?" she asked.

"Ten to seven," boasted Helen unwarily.

"Then a bad night won't hurt you. You'll have to sleep with Lady Warren
tonight."

Helen felt a pang of horror.

"Oh no," she cried. "I couldn't."

"And why not?"

"I--Well, it sounds absurd, but I'm afraid of her."

Nurse Barker looked pleased at the admission.

"Nonsense. Afraid of a bed-ridden old woman? I never heard anything so
fantastic. I'll arrange it with Miss Warren."

Helen had a spasm of shrinking aversion as she thought of Lady Warren's
artificial grin. She had something to smile about now. She alone, knew
where she had hid her revolver.

Suddenly she wondered what would be the outcome, if the nurse insisted
on her night in bed. As she looked around her, with troubled eyes, she
thought of the young doctor. If she appealed to him, she was sure that
he would not fail her.

"Well, we'll see what the doctor says about it," she said.

"Is the doctor young?" asked Nurse Barker.

"Youngish," replied Helen.

"Married?"

"No."

Mrs. Oates winked at Helen, as Nurse Barker opened her bag and drew out
a mirror and lipstick. She coated her tips with a smear of greasy
crimson.

"You understand," she said, turning to Helen, "I interview the doctor.
That is professional etiquette. You are not to talk to him about the
patient."

"But I don't talk to him about her," remarked Helen.

"About what, then?" asked Nurse Barker jealously.

"Aha, what don't they talk about?" broke in Mrs. Oates.

"Something saucy, you may depend. Miss Capel's a terror with the
gentlemen."

Although Helen knew that Mrs. Oates only wanted to tease the nurse, the
sheer novelty of the description made her feel gloriously triumphant,
and capable--like her famous namesake--of launching ships.

"Mrs. Oates is only pulling your leg," she told Nurse--responsive to the
vague warning that she must not make an enemy. "But the doctor's rather
a darling. We're friends. That's all."

Nurse Barker looked at Mrs. Oates.

"What a curious house this is. I expected a staff of servants. Why are
there none?"

"Funny thing," she remarked, "but as long as this place has been built
there's been a trouble to get girls to stay here. Too lonely, for one
thing. And then it got an unlucky name with servants."

"Unlucky?" prompted Nurse Barker, while Helen pricked up her ears for
the answer.

"Yes. It's an old tale now, but right back in Sir Robert's time, one of
the maids was found drowned in the well. Her sweetheart had jilted her,
so it was supposed she'd threw herself down. It was the drinking-well,
too."

"Disgusting pollution," murmured Nurse Barker.

"So it was. And then, on top of that, was the murder. Kitchen-maid it
was, found dead in the house, with her throat slit from ear to ear. She
was always hard on tramps and used to like to turn them from the door,
and one was heard to threaten to do her in. They never caught him. But
it got the house a bad smell."

Helen clasped her hands tightly.

"Mrs. Oates," she asked, "where, exactly, was she murdered?"

"In the dark passage, where the cellars are," was the reply. "I wouldn't
tell you, just now, but Oates and I always call that bit, 'Murder
Lane.'"

As she listened, it occurred to Helen that Lady Warren's rambling talk
about trees breaking into the house was built on a solid foundation.
When she was a young woman, she had been soaked to the marrow in this
damp solitude. She had stood at her window staring out into the winter
twilight, while the mist curled to shapes, and trees writhed into life.

One of the trees--a tramp, savage and red-eyed--had actually slipped
inside. No wonder, now that she was old, she re-lived the scene in her
memory.

"When did this happen?" she asked.

"Just before Sir Robert's death. Lady Warren wanted to give up the
house, as they couldn't get no servants, and it was rows, all the time,
till the accident."

"And has the Professor servant-trouble, too?" enquired Nurse Barker.

"Not till now," replied Mrs. Oates. "There's always been old and
middle-aged bits, as wanted a quiet home. They've kept things going
until these murders started the old trouble again."

Nurse Barker licked her lips with gloomy relish. "One of them was quite
close to the Summit, wasn't it?" she asked.

"A few miles off."

Nurse Barker laughed as she lit a fresh cigarette.

"Well, I needn't worry," she said. "I'm safe, as long as she is here."

"Do you mean Miss Capel?" asked Mrs. Oates.

"Yes."

Helen did not like being picked out for this special distinction. She
felt sorry that she had stepped into the limelight, with the
announcement of her alleged power to attract men.

"Why pick on me?" she protested.

"Because you are young and pretty."

Helen laughed, with a sudden sense of fresh security.

"In that case," she said, "I'm safe, too. No man would ever look at me,
while the Professor's daughter-in-law was by. She is young, too, and
oozes sex-appeal."

Nurse Barker shook her head, with a smile full of dark meaning.

"No," she insisted. "She is safe."

"Why?" asked Helen.

In her turn, Nurse Barker put a question.

"Haven't you noticed it for yourself?"

Her hints were so vague and mysterious that they got under Helen's skin.

"I wish you would come out in the open," she cried.

"I will, then," said Nurse Barker. "Haven't you noticed that the
murderer always chooses girls who earn their own living? Very likely
he's a shell-shock case, who came back from the War, to find a woman in
his place. The country is crawling with women, like maggots, eating up
all the jobs. And the men are starved out."

"But I'm not doing man's work," protested Helen.

"Yes, you are. Men are being employed in houses, now. There's a man,
here. Her husband." Nurse Barker nodded to indicate Mrs. Oates. "Instead
of being at home, you're out, taking a wage. It's wages from somebody
else. That's how a man looks at it."

"Well--what about yourself?"

"A nurse's work has always been held sacred to women."

Mrs. Oates made an effort to relieve the tension, as she rose from her
chair.'

"Well, I'd. better see what mess one man's made of the dinner. Upon my
word, Nurse, to hear you talk, you might be a man yourself."

"I can see through their eyes," said Nurse Barker.

Helen, however, noticed that Mrs. Oates had scored a bull, for Nurse
Barker bit her lips, as though she resented the remark. But she kept her
eyes fixed upon the girl, who felt herself shrink under the relentless
stare. Her common-sense returned at the sound of Mrs. Oates' loud laugh.

"Well, anyone what wants to get our little Miss Capel, will have to get
past Oates and me first."

Helen looked at her ugly face, her brawny arms. She thought of Oates
with his stupendous strength. She had two worthy guardians, in case of
need.

"I'd not afraid of getting preferential treatment," she said. As though
she had some uncanny instinct, Nurse Barker seemed to know exactly how
to raise up the spectre of fear.

"In any case," she observed, "you will have Lady Warren to keep you
company. You are sleeping with her tonight."

Helen heard the words with a horrible sense of finality. Lady Warren
knew that Helen would have to come. Her smile was like that of a
crocodile, waiting for prey which never failed it.

The old lady would be waiting for her.



CHAPTER VIII. JEALOUSY



While Helen grappled with the problem of how to make the doctor
understand her aversion to night-duty--so that he might back her up with
the necessary authority--the triangle was working up to a definite
situation. Had she known it, she would have been indifferent to any
development of marital friction. For the first time in her life, she was
removed from her comfortable seat in the theatre, and pushed on to the
stage.

The more she thought of the prospect of sleeping in the blue room, the
less she liked it. It was a case for compliance, or open rebellion, when
she risked not only dismissal, but a probable forfeiture of salary. She
was positive that Miss Warren would side with the nurse, for her short
spell as her deputy had been both repugnant and inconvenient.

Nurse Barker's status in the household, as a trained professional woman,
was far higher than the help's. If she declared an ultimatum, Helen must
inevitably go to the wall. Moreover, in spite of his apparent interest
in herself, she had an uneasy suspicion that--as a matter of
etiquette--the doctor must support the nurse.

"If he fails me, I'll just have to grit my teeth and see it through,"
she thought. "But, first, I'll have a desperate dig at his higher
nature."

While there seemed to be no connection between her own grim drama of
fear and the teacup tempest in the drawing-room, the repercussions of
the trivial theme were to be of vital importance to her safety.

Yet the drawing room and kitchen seemed a world apart. As Helen was
grating nutmegs, Simone tossed her cigarette into the fire and rose,
with a yawn. Instantly her husband's head shot up from behind the cover
of his book.

"Where are you going?" he asked.

"To dress. Why?"

"Merely an opening gambit for conversation. Your unbroken silence is
uncivilised."

Simone's eyes flashed under her painted brows.

"You do nothing but ask questions," she said. "I'm not used to
cross-examination--and I resent it. And another thing. I object to being
followed."

Newton stuck out his lower lip as he threw away his own cigarette.

"But your way happens to be my way, my dear," Newton told her. "I'm
going up to dress, too."

Simone spun round and faced him.

"Look here," she said, "I don't want to throw a scene here, because of
the Professor. But I warn you once and for all, I've had enough of it."

"And I warn you, too," he told her, "I've had enough of you and Rice."

"Oh, don't be a fool, and start that Middle Ages stuff all over again.
You've nothing on me. I'm free to do as I like. I can chuck you--and I
will, too--if you persist in being impossible. I've my own money."

"Perhaps, that's why I'm anxious to keep you," said Newton. "Don't
forget, this family runs to brains."

The anger faded from Simone's face and she looked at her husband with a
flicker of real interest. Swayed by her senses and desires, she had
deliberately stunted her own intellect. She despised cleverness in a
woman, since she believed she needed only instinct, in order to explore
every part of the territory--man.

Because it was an unfamiliar dimension, she respected a masculine brain.
She married Newton, in spite of his ugly face, for the sake of the
uncharted region behind his bulging forehead. Intensive spoiling had
made her care only for the unattainable.

Her series of affairs with ardent undergraduates had made no impression
on her, because they were too easy. Newton could have held her, had he
persisted in his pose of indifference.

Unfortunately, his jealousy of Stephen Rice's good looks had dragged him
down from his heights and into the arena.

There was mutual dislike between them, on the score of an old episode
which had sent Rice down from Oxford. For this reason, Stephen played
Simone's game, whenever her husband was present, on purpose to annoy
him.

At the drawing-room door, Simone turned and spoke to her husband.

"I'm going upstairs, alone."

Newton stared at her, and then sullenly sank down again in his chair. A
minute later, he threw down his book, and walked softly up the stairs,
as far as the first landing where he stood, listening.

Simone had reached the second floor, but she did not enter the red room.
Instead, she scraped with her finger on the panel of Stephen's door.

"Steve," she called.

Stephen was stretched on the bed, smoking, while the Alsatian lay beside
him, his head on his master's chest.

At the sound of Simone's knock, Stephen grimaced to him, as a sign to
him to remain silent.

The dog showed the lining of his ears, while his eyes rolled, revealing
their whites. Simone knocked louder and rattled the door-handle.

"Don't come in," shouted Stephen. "I'm dressing."

"Then hurry. I want to see you."

Simone sauntered back to the big red room, to find her husband already
in possession.

"No luck?" he asked casually, as he took off his coat.

"I told you not to follow me," she said.

"I didn't. I merely moved, in obedience to the natural law. Even
glaciers travel--although we don't see them do it."

"If you travelled at their rate, I shouldn't complain."

Simone crossed to the wardrobe and took out the black velvet dinner
gown, which she had worn since her arrival at the Summit.

Rejecting it in favour of a backless gown of pale-pink angel-skin, she
drew it over her head.

"Excellent taste for a family dinner, in the wilds," sneered Newton.

Simone looked at him defiantly. "I'm not wearing it for the benefit of
your family," she told him.

She felt his eyes upon her, watching every process of making up her
complexion.

"A touch of perfume behind the ears," he advised. "No man can resist
it."

"Thanks for the reminder."

Simone finished her toilet--eyes brilliant with temper and her lips
compressed. When she went out of the room, she deliberately flung the
door wide open, so that her husband could hear her footsteps cross the
landing to the bachelor's room.

"Steve," she called. "I want to speak to you."

"Oh--all right."

The pupil appeared, looked both crumpled and sulky.

"Your hair's untidy," said Simone, putting up her hands to part his
heavy wave.

"Don't." He shook his head impatiently. "I detest fiddling."

"But I like doing it."

"Then keep on doing it, my dear."

Stephen ceased to protest, for the reason that he heard footsteps behind
him. He looked up at Newton with a malicious grin.

"You'll get the benefit of this, Warren," he said, "Your wife's
practising on me,"

The veins swelled on Newton's temples as he watched his wife's bare arms
clasped around Stephen's neck. With a laugh and a backward sweep of her
hand, she rumpled his hair until it stood up in a mop.

"There--you're finished," she declared.

Newton burst into a hoot of amusement at Stephen's discomfiture.

"He looks like Harpo," he said. "I hope my wife will continue to use you
as her model, so long as she spares me that."

Simone glanced at her husband's stubborn crest.

"Where's the difference?" she asked. "Stephen, you've not admired my new
dress."

Although the young man had not even noticed her finery, he stressed his
admiration for Newton's benefit.

"Well. I'm bowled over. Beautiful--and most revealing. I'll never
mistake you for a nun again."

Newton's mouth tightened and his glasses magnified the ugly gleam in his
eyes, Stephen was self-conscious and truculent as Simone slowly revolved
to display a back which had been pronounced perfect.

The scene appeared an ordinary exhibition of herd-instinct, complicated
by a frustrated sense of ownership. Yet each released current of human
passion was another tributary to swell the tidal-wave which, later,
would sweep Helen away, like a straw on flood-water.

Newton turned away, with an affected shrug.

"I'm afraid my wife's dresses are not the same novelty to me," he said,
"Oh--by the way, Rice--what have you done with that dog?"

"He's in my bedroom," snapped Stephen.

"In a bedroom? Really, than going too far. It's hardly fair to the lady
of the house. If you take my advice, you'll put him in the garage for
the night."

"I'll take nothing from you," snarled Stephen.

"Not even my wife? Many thanks."

Whistling in apparent unconcern, Newton strolled down the stairs,
without a backward glance.

Stephen bristled with defensive instinct, although he knew that Newton's
attitude was reasonable.

"Hanged if I'll park the pup in that draughty hole," he stormed. "He
stays here--or I go with him,"

"For Heaven's sake, forget the dog," exclaimed Simone. "Tell me if you
really like my dress."

"What there is of it," remarked Stephen, reverting to type, since Newton
pad gone. "I'm keen on seeing how a boxer strips, when I've backed him;
but I don't care about bare backs out of the ring."

"You brute," Simone cried, "I put it on for you. I want you to remember
our last night. And me."

"Sorry, my dear," said Stephen lightly. "But I'm going to the _Bull_
after dinner."

Simone's eyes blazed with sudden passion.

"You're going to see that tow-headed barmaid,"

"Whitey? Yes. But I'm going to see something else, too. Beer. Glorious
beer."

"Stay with me, instead. You're the only man I've ever had to ask
before."

Stephen stuck out his lip, like a spoiled child. He wanted an evening of
masculine society--the freedom and alcoholic good company of the little
country-inn. The landlord's flaxen-haired daughter was merely incidental
to his pleasure, because she filled his mug.

He also wanted to get rid of Simone.

Had he known, he could have done so by a show of humility, or an
avalanche of attentions. But when he turned away from her, he snapped
yet another link of the chain which connected Helen with safety.

Almost running into his room, he slammed the door behind him, and threw
himself on the bed.

"Women are the devil," he told the Alsatian. "Never get married, my
lad."

In an evil temper, Simone flounced down the stairs. On the landing, she
met Mrs. Oates who was showing Nurse Barker to her patient's' room. At
the sight of the ferocious-looking woman, her expression slightly
cleared, for her jealousy was so inflamed that she would have resented
an attractive nurse.

"Young Mrs. Warren," whispered Mrs. Oates, as she knocked at the door of
the blue room.'

Nurse Barker grunted, for she recognised the type. "Nymphomaniac," she
said.

"Oh, no, she's quite sane," declared Mrs. Oates. "Just flighty."

Miss Warren opened the door--a film of welcome in her pale eyes.

"I'm glad you've come, nurse," she said.

"Yes, I expect you're glad to pass on the job to me," observed Nurse
Barker. "Can I see the patient?"

She stalked after Miss Warren, into the blue room, and stood beside the
bed, where Lady Warren lay in a shrunken heap, with closed clay-coloured
lids. "I do hope she'll take a fancy to you," hinted Miss Warren
nervously.

"Oh, we'll soon be friends," said Nurse Barker confidently. "I've a way
with old people. They want kindness with firmness. They're just like
children, at the other end,"

Lady Warren suddenly opened an eye which was not in the least
child-like, unless it was that of an infant shot out of an eternity of
sin.'"

"Is that the new nurse?" she asked.

"Yes, Mother," replied Miss Warren.

"Send her away." Miss Warren looked helplessly at the nurse.

"Oh dear," she murmured, 'I'm afraid she's taken another dislike."

"That's nothing," said Nurse Barker. "She's being a bit naughty, that's
all. I'll soon win her over."

"Send her away," repeated Lady Warren. "I want the girl back."

Nurse Barker saw her chance of redeeming her unpopularity.

"You shall have her, tonight," she promised.

Then she drew Miss Warren aside.

"Is there any brandy in the room?" she asked. "I'm medically ordered to
take a little stimulant."

Miss Warren looked disturbed.

"I thought you understood this is a teetotal house," she explained. "As
you know, you are paid a higher salary."

"But it's not safe to have no brandy in a sick room," insisted Nurse
Barker.

"My mother depends on oxygen," explained Miss Warren. "It is her
life...Still...Perhaps...I'll speak to the Professor."

Driven before the towering form of Nurse Barker, she drifted across the
landing, like a withered leaf in the eddy of an east wind.

The professor appeared at his bedroom door, in answer to his sister's
tap. He greeted the nurse with stony courtesy, and listened to her
request.

"Certainly you may have brandy, if you require it," he said. "I will go
down, at once, to the cellar, and send a bottle up to your room."

Helen, who was helping in the kitchen, glanced curiously at Mrs. Oates,
when the Professor asked her for a candle.

"I shall want you to hold it," he said. "I'm going to the wine-cellar."

Although the request amounted to mental cruelty, Mrs. Oates hastened to
obey. The electric pendant lit the passage only as far as the bend;
around the corner it was quite dark. She walked ahead of the Professor,
to guide him, and when she reached the door of the cellar, stood,
holding her candle aloft, like a pilgrim who had reached his Mecca.

The key turned in the lock, and Mrs. Oates and the Professor entered the
sacred place. Fat lumps of greed swam in the woman's eyes as her master
selected a bottle from a bin.

As she gazed at it thirstily, the Professor glanced at the thermometer
which hung on the wall.

"That temperature cannot be right," he said, thrusting the bottle into
her hands. "Hold this while I carry it to a better light."

In a short time he returned from the passage, and relocked the cellar
door. This time, he led the way back to the kitchen, while Mrs. Oates
walked respectfully in his rear. As she passed through the scullery, she
ducked down for a second, beside the sink.

The Professor placed the bottle of brandy on the kitchen table and spoke
to Helen.

"Please take this up to the blue room, immediately, after Mrs. Oates has
drawn the cork."

When they were alone Helen sympathised with Mrs. Oates.

"It's a shame. Why don't you keep back just a table spoonful, to drink
Lady Warren's health?"

"I wouldn't dare," Mrs. Oates told her. "That nurse would know, and
split on me. Besides, it would be sin to water down such lovely stuff."

Helen admired the fortitude with which the woman thrust the bottle into
her hands.

"Run off with it, quick", she said, "but be sure not drop it."

Directly she was alone, the secret of her courage was revealed.
Lumbering into the scullery, she groped for something she had hidden
under the sink.

Opportunity had knocked at her door, and she had been swift in her
response. When she returned to the kitchen, she smiled triumphantly at
her spoil, before she hid it away among the empties in her cupboard.

It was a second bottle of brandy.



CHAPTER IX. THE OLD WOMAN REMEMBERS



When Helen carried the brandy up to the blue room, Nurse Barker opened
the door, in answer to her tap. In her white overall--her dark-red face
framed in its handkerchief headgear--she looked like a gigantic block of
futuristic sculpture.

"Thank you," she said. "This will help me to get some sleep. I must have
one good night, if I have to carry on this case, single-handed."

There was a sinister glint in her deep-set eyes as she added:

"I have arranged for you to sleep here, tonight. Miss Warren was
present, so she understands the agreement, and the old girl--Lady
Warren--" she hastened to correct her slip--"raised no objection." Helen
thought it was wiser to let any protest come from an official quarter.

"Yes, Nurse," she said. "But I must hurry to dress."

"Oh, you dress for dinner, do you?"

The woman's tone was so strained--her glance so spiked--that Helen was
glad to get away.

"She's jealous," she thought. "And Miss Warren's a coward. They're both
weak links. I wonder what my special failing is."

Like the majority of the human race, she was blind to her own faults,
and would have protested vehemently against the charge of curiosity,
although Mrs. Oates already knew the origin of several trivial mishaps.

When she entered her bedroom, she recoiled with a violent start, at the
sight of a black shape, which appeared to be swinging into her window.

Snapping on the light, she saw that she had been misled by the branches
of a tall cedar, which was being lashed by the gale. Although it seemed
so near, the tree was too far away for any athlete to leap from it into
her room; but every gust swept the boughs towards the opening in an
unpleasantly suggestive manner.

"That tree looks as if it was trying to force its way in," thought
Helen. "I'll have to shut that window."

When she fastened the casement, she noticed how the rain streamed down
the glass, like a water-spout. The garden lay below, in sodden blackness
amid the tormented landscape, over which the elements swept mightily.

She was glad to draw the curtains and gloat over the contrast of her
splendid room. It contained the entire furniture of the bedroom of the
first Lady Warren. When she had exchanged it for her dwelling in the
family vault, it was still new and costly, so that time, combined with
lack of use, had done little to dim its grandeur.

Miss Warren, on her return from Cambridge, had made a clean sweep of her
mother's belongings to a spare room, in preference of stark and rigid
utility; but Helen gladly accepted its superfluity of ornaments and its
colour-scheme of terra cotta and turquoise-blue, for the novelty of
thick carpet and costly fabrics.

The original owner's photograph had the place of honour on the marble
mantel-shelf. It was taken probably in the 'eighties, and represented an
amiable lady, with a curled fringe, too little forehead, and too many
chins.

Above her rose the mirror. Its base was heavily painted with bulrushes,
water-lilies and storks.

As Helen thought of the ordeal which threatened her, she wished that Sir
Robert had remained faithful to the dead.

"If she'd lived, she'd have been a dear old lady," she thought. "Still,
I asked for it. You couldn't keep me out of that room."

The need to win over Dr. Parry became so urgent that she adopted
Simone's, tactics. As a rule, she wore a sleeveless white Summer frock,
for dinner; but, tonight, she resolved to put on her only evening-dress,
for the first time. It was a cheap little gown, bought in Oxford Street,
during the sales. All the same, the artistic--if hackneyed--contrast of
its pale-green colour with the flaming bush of her hair, made her smile
at her reflection in the big swinging cheval-glass.

"Ought to fetch him," she murmured, as she hurried downstairs in sudden
dread, lest he should have arrived in her absence.

She was still faced with her problem of making her opportunity to see
him alone; for, of necessity, she was at the call of the household,
owing to the elastic nature of her duties. But she had learned how to
hide, in the commission of her work; and no S.O.S. could reach her when
she was afflicted with temporary deafness.

"The lobby," she decided. "I'll take down a damp cloth, and wipe the
dust from the palm."

When she reached the landing, on the first floor, the door of the blue
room was opened an inch, to reveal a section of white and the glint of
Nurse Barker's eye. Directly she saw that she was observed, the woman
shut the door again.

There was something so furtive about that secret examination that Helen
felt uneasy.

"She was waiting for me," she thought. "There's something very queer
about that woman. I wouldn't like to be alone with her, in the house.
She'd let you down."

As her instinct was always to explore the unfamiliar, she turned in the
direction of the blue room. Nurse Barker saw that her ambush was
discovered, and she opened the door.

"What d' you want?" she asked ungraciously.

"I want to warn you," replied Helen.

She broke off, conscious that Nurse Barker was looking at her neck with
hungry gloating eyes.

"How white your skin is," she said.

"Red hair," explained Helen shortly.

As a rule, she was sorry that she did not attract general attention;
now, for the first time in her life, she shrank from admiration.

"Did you say you wanted to warn me?" asked Nurse Barker.

"Yes," whispered Helen. "Don't play Lady Warren too low."

"What d' you mean?"

"She's hiding something."

"What?"

"If you're as clever as she is, you'll find out," replied Helen, turning
away.

"Come back," demanded Nurse Barker. "You've either said too much, or not
enough."

Helen smiled as she shook her head.

"Ask Miss Warren," she advised. "I told her, and got nicely snubbed for
my pains. But I felt I ought to put you on your guard."

She started at the rumble of a deep bass voice from in side the blue
room.

"Is that the girl?"

"Yes, my lady," replied Nurse Barker. "Do you want to see her?"

"Yes."

"I'm sorry." Helen spoke quickly. "I can't stop now. I've got to help
with the dinner."

Nurse Barker's eyes glittered with a sense of power.

"Why are you so afraid of her?" she sneered.

"You'd be afraid, too, if you knew as much as I do," hinted Helen.

Nurse Barker grasped her by the wrist, while her nostrils quivered.

"The dinner can wait," she said. "Miss Warren's instructions are that
Lady Warren must be humoured. Come in."

Helen entered the blue room with a sinking heart. Lady Warren lay in
bed, propped up with pillows. She wore a fleecy white bed-jacket. Her
shock of grey hair was neatly parted in the middle, and secured with
pink bows. It had obviously been Nurse Barker's first job to deck her
patient out, like sacrificial lamb. Helen knew that some grim sense of
humour had made the old lady submit to the indignity. She was luring on
the nurse to a sense of false security, only to make the subsequent
disillusionment the harsher.

"Come here," she said, in a hoarse whisper. "I want to tell you
something.'"

Helen felt herself gripped and drawn downwards, so that Lady Warren's
hot breath played on her bare neck.

"A girl was murdered in this house," said Lady Warren.

"Yes, I know." Helen spoke in a soothing tone. "But why do you think
about it? It happened so long ago."

"How do you know?" rapped out Lady Warren.

"Mrs. Oates told me."

"Did she tell you that the girl was thrown down the well?"

Helen remembered that in Mrs. Oates' version, a more gory method was
employed. The well figured in the suicide incident. It struck her that
Mrs. Oates had exaggerated the truth, in order to achieve the
sensational interest of a murder.

"Perhaps it was an accident," she said aloud.

Lady Warren lost her temper at the attempt to calm her.

"No," she bellowed, "it was murder. I saw it. Upstairs, from a window.
It was nearly dark, and I thought it was only a tree in the garden.
Then--the girl came, and it moved, and threw her in. I was too late. I
couldn't find a rope...Listen."

She drew down Helen's head almost on to the pillow.

"You are that girl," she whispered.

Helen felt as though she were listening to a forecast of her own fate;
but she caught Nurse Barker's eye in an attempt to delude her that she
was humouring the invalid, in professional style.

"Am I?" she said lightly. "Well, I'll have to be very careful."

"You little fool," panted the old woman. "I'm warning you. Girls get
murdered in this house. But you sleep with me. I'll take care of you."

Suddenly Helen thought she might trap her to reveal the hiding-place of
the revolver.

"How will you do it?" she asked.

"I'll shoot him."

"Fine. But where's your gun?"

Lady Warren looked at Helen with a gleam of crocodile cunning in her
eyes.

"I haven't a gun," she whined. "I had one once, but they took it away.
I'm only a poor old woman. Nurse, she says I have a gun. Have I?"

"Of course not," said Nurse Barker. "Really, Miss Capel, you've no right
to irritate the patient.':

"Then I'll go," declared Helen thankfully. She added, in an undertone,
"You asked me a question, just now. You've had your answer. You know now
what to look for."

At the door, she was arrested by Lady Warren's bass bellow.

"Come back, tonight."

"Very well, I will," she promised.

To her surprise her nerves were quivering from the episode, as she went
down into the hall.

"What's the matter with me?" she wondered. "I believe I shall go goofy
if the doctor doesn't get me out."

She looked anxiously at the grandfather's clock. Dr. Parry lived several
miles away, so he always paid his last call at the Summit, in order to
get back to his dinner.

He had never been so late before. A slight foreboding stole over Helen
as she listened to the fury of the storm. When Miss Warren drifted by,
like a woman in a dream, she appealed to her.

"The doctor's late, Miss Warren."

Miss Warren looked at the clock. She was already dressed for dinner, in
her usual mushroom lace gown.

"Perhaps he's not coming," she said indifferently.

Helen gave a gasp of dismay. With the egotism of an employer, who never
connected a young girl with an independent existence, Miss Warren
believed that Helen's concern was on account of the family.

"My mother's condition is static," she explained, "although the end is
inevitable. Dr. Parry has given us instructions how to act, in case of
sudden failure."

"But why shouldn't he come tonight?" insisted Helen. "He always comes."

"The weather," murmured Miss Warren.

A rush of wind crashing against the corner of the house illustrated her
meaning with perfect timing. Helen's heart turned to water at the sound.

"He won't come," she thought. "I shall have to sleep in the blue room."



CHAPTER X. THE TELEPHONE



Helen had to sleep in the blue room. Everyone in the Summit had accepted
the situation. Feeling that her ambush in the lobby would be waste of
time, since she was certain that Dr. Parry would not come, she walked
dejectedly towards the kitchen stairs.

She was intercepted by Newton, who slouched out of the morning-room.

"I hear you've made a conquest of my grandmother," he said.
"Congratulations. How is it done?"

The interest in Newton's eyes invigorated Helen and made her feel
mistress of a difficult situation.

"I haven't got to tell you," she replied.

"You mean I'm her white-headed boy," said Newton. "That may be. But it
doesn't take me far when financial interests are at stake. I can't live
on sugar."

Hitherto, Helen had been somewhat in awe of Newton, who completely
ignored her as a social entity. She was there merely to do a job, and he
supposed that she--like all the other girls--would go at the end of the
month, if she lasted as long.

The novelty of his attention stimulated her confidence.

"Do you mean the will?" she asked boldly.

He nodded.

"Will she--or won't she?"

"We talked about it," said Helen, inflated with her own importance. "I
advised her not to keep putting it off." Newton gave a shout of
excitement. "Aunt Blanche. Come here."

Miss Warren was wafted by some terrestrial wind out of the drawing-room,
in obedience to her nephew's call. For some inexplicable reason, the
shambling short-sighted youth seemed to sway the affection of his own
womankind, even if he failed to hold his wife.

"What is it?" she asked.

"Epic news," Newton told her. "Miss Capel has worked faster in five
minutes than the rest of us in five years. She's got Gran to talk about
her will."

"Not exactly that," explained Helen. "But she said she couldn't die,
because she had a job to do--an unpleasant job, which everyone puts
off."

"Good enough," nodded Newton. "Well, Miss Capel, I only hope you will go
on with the good work, if she's wakeful tonight."

Even Miss Warren seemed impressed by the fresh development, for she
looked, more or less directly, at Helen.

"Extraordinary," she murmured. "You seem to have more influence over her
than anyone else."

Helen walked away, conscious that she had been betrayed by her impulse
to play to the gallery. Now that the family had a direct personal
interest in her relations with Lady Warren, she could only expect their
opposition, if she appealed to them against the verdict of the blue
room.

But she continued to hold her head high, as though sustained by popular
support on her way to execution, even while she shrank from her first
glimpse of the scaffold. In her last minute, she would be alone.

When she reached the kitchen, she was instantly aware that Mrs. Oates
was in no mood for gossip, while Oates kept out of his wife's way, in a
significant manner. Regardless of Helen's finery, Mrs. Oates pointed to
a steaming basin, on the table.

"Just blanch these for the tipsy-cake," she said. "I'm behind with my
dinner. And Oates keeps dodging under my feet, until I don't know if I'm
up in the air, or down a coal-mine."

In a chastened mood, Helen sat down and gingerly popped almonds out of
their shrivelled brown skins. She had accepted the fact of the doctor's
absence so completely that she ignored the sound of a bell ringing in
the basement hall.

It was Mrs. Oates who glanced at the indicator.

"Front door," she snapped. "That'll be the doctor."

Helen sprang to her feet and rushed to the door.

"I'll let him in," she cried.

"Thank you, miss," said Oates gratefully. "I haven't my trousers on."

"Disgraceful," laughed Helen, who knew he referred to the fact that he
put on his best trousers and a linen jacket, in order to carry in the
dinner.

Again hope soared, as she flew up the stairs and opened the front door,
letting in a sheet of torrential rain, driven before the gale, as well
as the doctor.

He was strongly-built, and inclined to be stocky, with short blunt
clean-shaven features. Helen beamed her welcome, while he--in
turn--looked at her with approval.

"Is this Gala Night?" he asked.

His gaze held none of the uncomfortable suction of the nurse's eyes, so
that Helen rejoiced in her new evening frock. But Dr. Parry was more
concerned by the hollows in her neck than struck by the whiteness of her
skin.

"Odd that you are not better developed," he frowned, "with all the
housework you do,"

"I've not been doing any lately," explained Helen.

"I see," muttered Dr. Parry, as he wondered why voluntary starvation, in
the case of a slimming patient should fail to affect him, since the
result was the same.

"Like milk?" he asked. "But, of course, you don't."

"Don't I? I'd be a peril, if I worked in a dairy."

"You ought to drink a lot. I'll speak to Mrs. Oates."

The doctor drew off his leather motoring coat and flung it on the chair.

"Dirty weather," he said. "It made me late. The roads are like broth.
How is Lady Warren tonight?"

"Just the same; she wants me to sleep with her."

"Well, if I know anything about you, you'll enjoy doing that," grinned
the doctor. "Something new."

"But I'm dreading it," wailed Helen. "I'm just hanging on you to tell
them I'm not--not competent."

"Jim-jams? Has the house got you, too? Are you finding it too lonely
here?"

"Oh, no, it's not just nerves. I've got a reason for being afraid."

Contrary to her former experience, Helen held the doctor's attention,
while she told him the story of the revolver.

"It's a rum yarn," he said. "But I'd believe anything of that old
surprise-packet. I'll see if I can find out where she's hidden it."

"And you'll say I'm not to sleep with her?" insisted Helen.

But things were not so simple as that, for Dr. Parry rubbed his chin
doubtfully.

"I can't promise. I must see the nurse first. She may really need a good
night, if she's come straight off duty. I'd better be going up."

He swung open the doors leading to the hall. As they crossed it, he
spoke to her in an undertone.

"Buck up, old lady. It won't be loaded. In any case, her eye will be
out, after all these years."

"She hit the nurse," Helen reminded him.

"Sheer fluke. Remember, she's an old woman. Don't bother to come up."

"No, I'd better introduce you formally to the nurse," insisted Helen,
who was anxious not to infringe professional etiquette.

But the glare in Nurse Barker's eye, when she opened the door, in answer
to Helen's knock, told her that she had blundered again."

"I've brought up Dr. Parry," said Helen.

Nurse Barker inclined her head in a stately bow.

"How long have you been here, doctor?" she asked.

"Oh, five minutes or so," he replied.

"In future doctor, will you please come straight to the bedroom?" asked
the nurse. "Lady Warren has been worried, because you were late."

"Certainly, nurse, if it's like that," said the doctor.

Helen turned away with a sinking heart. The woman seemed to dominate the
young doctor with her will even as she appeared to tower over him--an
optical illusion, due to the white overall.

Simone--in all the glory of her sensational gown--swept past her in the
hall. Even in the midst of her own problem, Helen noticed that she was
literally drenched with emotion. Her eyes sparkled with tears, her lips
trembled, her hands were clenched.

She was in the grip of frustrate desire, which converted her into a
storm-centre of rage. She was angry with Newton--because he was an
obstacle; angry with Stephen--because he was unresponsive; angry with
herself--because she had lost her grip.

And all these complex passions were slowly merging on one person whom
she believed to be the other woman in the case. She was obsessed with
the idea that Stephen was turning her down for the sake of the
flaxen-haired barmaid at the _Bull_.

The help, in spite of her new frock, might have been invisible, for she
passed her without the slightest notice. And when Helen reached the
kitchen, Mrs. Oates also received her with silent gloom.

It seemed as though the mental atmosphere of the Summit was curdled with
acidity.

"You won't have to hold back dinner much longer," said Helen in the hope
of cheering Mrs. Oates. "The doctor will soon be gone."

"It's not that," remarked Mrs. Oates glumly.

"Then what's the matter?"

"Oates."

"What's he done?"

"Nothing. But he's always here, night and day, so that a woman can't
never be alone. Don't you never get married, miss."

Helen stared at her. She had always admired the good nature with which
Mrs. Oates accepted her husband's laziness and supplemented his efforts.
Although he did not pull his weight, she always made a joke of it, while
a rough, but real, affection turned their partnership into very good
company.

"It's for better, or worse," said Helen tactfully, "and I can understand
Mr. Oates grabbing you; because he could see you were a 'better'. Now, I
can't see the man who'd marry Nurse Barker. I wonder if she drinks."

"Eh?" asked Mrs. Oates absently.

"Well," shrugged Helen, "she was probably right to insist on having the
brandy, even if Miss Warren does say that the oxygen is Lady Warren's
life."

Mrs. Oates only stared at Helen--her brow puckered as though she were
grappling with a complicated sum in vulgar fractions. Presently,
however, she finished her calculations, and gave her own jolly laugh.

"Well, you don't often see me under the weather, do you?" she asked.
"And, talking of husbands, the best is bad, but I've got the best. Now,
my dear, just listen for the doctor. Directly he goes, I want to slip
upstairs with a bit of pudding for Nurse."

Helen vaguely resented the attention as treachery towards herself.

"Take her tipsy-cake, to go with her brandy," she advised.

"Now, somebody's on her hind-legs." Mrs. Oates laughed. "But she's got
to go through the night on only a snack. She may look like a slab of
stale fish, but a nurse's life is a hard one."

Helen felt ashamed of her resentment, as she waited on the kitchen
stairs, which was her listening-in station. She was still puzzled by
Mrs. Oates' changes of mood, for she was not temperamental by nature.

For no explicable reason, she swayed to and fro, like a weathercock.
Whence came the mysterious wind which was blowing on her?

"There's something wrong about this house, tonight," decided Helen.

Hearing Dr. Parry's voice in the distance, she shouted to Mrs. Oates,
and dashed up into the hall. Directly he saw her, Dr. Parry came to meet
her. His face was red and he bristled with suppressed anger.

"Miss Capel," he said, using the formal voice of a stranger, "if there
is any question of your sleeping with Lady Warren, tonight, understand,
I will not sanction it."

Helen realised, at once, that Nurse Barker had overreached herself with
her high-handed methods. Although her heart sang at her release,
experience had taught her the advantage of appealing to the fount of
authority.

"Yes, doctor," she said meekly. "But if Nurse Barker goes to Miss
Warren, she'll get her own way."

"In that case," he said, "I'll go straight to the Professor. No woman
shall bully-rag me. If there's any opposition to my orders, some other
doctor can take the case. I only hang on, because my own mother--the
dearest soul--had a tongue which would raise a blister on a tortoise's
back. For her sake, I've a bit of a weak spot for the old b--blessing."

Helen drew back when they reached the Professor's study.

"Come in with me," said the doctor.

In spite of her awe of the Professor, Helen obeyed eagerly. The
curiosity which would have propelled her to visit any strange and savage
beast in its lair, made her anxious to see her employer in his privacy.

She was struck by the resemblance to Miss Warren's room. Like hers, the
furniture was merely incidental to the books and papers--supplemented in
the case of the Professor, by files and shelves of volumes of reference.
There was no trace of the comfort usually characteristic of a man's
den--no shabby Varsity chair, no old slippers, or tobacco-jar.

The Professor sat at his American roll-top desk, his finger-tips pressed
against his temples. When he looked up, his face appeared blanched and
strained.

"Headache?" asked the doctor.

"So-so," was the reply.

Helen bit her tongue to keep back her impulsive offer of aspirin, as she
felt that professional advice should take preference.

"Take anything?" asked Dr. Parry casually.

"Yes."

"Good. The new nurse wants Miss Capel to take duty, tonight. I forbid
it. Lady Warren's heart is in a bad way, and she is in too critical a
condition to be left in the charge of an untrained girl. Will you see
that this order stands?"

As he listened, the Professor kept his fingers pressed over his
eyeballs.

"Certainly," he agreed.

When they were outside, Helen turned to the doctor, her eyes limpid with
gratitude.

"You don't know what this means to me," she said.

"You--"

She broke off at the shrilling of the telephone-bell. As the instrument
was in the hall, she rushed to answer it.

"Hold on, please," she said, beckoning to Dr. Parry. "The call's for
you. Someone's ringing up from the _Bull_. He asked if you were here."

With her evergreen interest in the affairs of others, she tried to
reconstruct the inaudible part of the conversation from listening to Dr.
Parry's end of the line.

"That you, Williams?" he asked. "What's the trouble?"

His casual tone dulled to incredulity, as he heard, and then sharpened
to a note of horror.

"What?...Impossible...What a horrible thing. I'll come at once."

When he hung up, his expression testified to the fact that the
telephone-message had proved a shock. While Helen waited for him to
speak, Miss Warren came into the hall.

"Was that the telephone-bell?" she asked vaguely.

"Yes," replied Dr. Parry. "Do you remember a girl Ceridwen Owen--who
used to work here? Well, she's dead. Her body has just been discovered
inside a garden."



CHAPTER XI. AN ARTICLE OF FAITH



As Helen heard the name, she remembered the gossip in the kitchen.
Ceridwen was the pretty sluttish girl, who used to dust under Lady
Warren's bed, and whose lovers waited for her, outside the house, with,
the patient fixity of trees. She believed she had actually seen one of
them in the plantation, whose vigil had certainly proved in vain.

"Rum thing," said Dr. Parry. "Williams says that when Captain Bean was
coming home from market he lit a match to find the keyhole. That's how
he chanced to see her--huddled up in a dark corner of his garden. He
came, at once, hell-for-leather to the _Bull_, and asked Williams to
ring my house. My housekeeper told them to try the Summit."

"Very shocking," observed Miss Warren. "I suppose it was some seizure.
Her colour was unusually high."

"I'll soon find out," announced Dr. Parry. "What beats me is this. The
Captain's cottage is only the other side of the plantation. Why didn't
he come over here, instead of running nearly a mile to the _Bull?_"

"He had quarrelled with my brother. The Professor pointed out a
scientific slip in one of his articles. And I believe there was trouble
with Mrs. Oates over some of his eggs."

Dr. Parry nodded with complete comprehension. Captain Bean was a morose
and hot-tempered recluse, who would reject Einstein's Theory and the
charge of supplying a bad egg with equal fury. He kept a small
poultry-farm, did the work of his cottage, and wrote articles on the
customs and religions of native tribes in unfrequented quarters of the
Globe.

Dr. Parry knew that his life of isolation tended to a lack of
perspective, which would exaggerate a trifling grievance to the
intensity of a feud; and he guessed that he would prefer to plough
through torrential rain rather than ask a neighbour for the use of his
telephone.

"I'll cut across the plantation," he said. "It will be quicker. I'll
come back for my bike."

The booming of the dinner-gong speeded his parting, but he left a sense
of tragedy behind him. When the family was gathered around the table in
the dining-room, the subject of Ceridwen cropped up with the soup.

Newton and his wife were not interested in the death of a domestic, but
Stephen remembered her.

"Wasn't she the lass with the little dark come-hither eye and a wet red
mouth?" he asked. "The one Lady Warren coshed?"

"An animal type," remarked Miss Warren. She hastened to add, in a
perfunctory voice, "Poor girl."

"Why--poor?" asked Newton aggressively. "We should all envy her. She has
achieved annihilation."

"'Healed of her wound of living, shall sleep sound,'" murmured his aunt,
adapting the quotation.

"No!" declared Newton. "No sleep. Too chancey a proposition. One might
wake again. Rather--'I thank with brief thanksgiving whatever gods there
be, that no life lives forever, that dead men rise up never, that even
the weariest river--'"

"Oh, dry up," broke in Stephen. "Even a river does that, when it's been
in the sun."

"But unfortunately, I am not drunk," said Newton. "No one could be, in
this house."

"There's always the _Bull_," Stephen reminded him.

"And a devastating barmaid," said Simone, with meaning in her voice.

"Oh, Newton knows Whitey all right." Stephen grinned. "But I've cut him
out. I always do that, don't I, Warren?"

Helen was glad of any interruption, however uncomfortable. It had been
distasteful to listen to a dreary Creed of Negation when every cell in
her body rejoiced in life. What had hurt her even more, was the hint at
a denial of the soul.

Her submerged sense of hostess made Miss Warren rouse herself from her
dream. Although she was unconscious of Stephen's provocative grin,
Simone's slanting glances of passion, and Newton's scowl, she was aware
of some poisoned undertow. She changed the subject, after looking across
at the Professor, who sat with his eyes covered by his hand.

"Is your head aching again, Sebastian?" she asked.

"I hardly slept last night," he said.

"What are you taking, Chief?" enquired Newton.

"_Quadronex_."

"Tricky stuff, Better be careful of your quantities."

A sarcastic smile flickered round the Professor's dry lips.

"My dear Newton," he said, "when you were an infant you squalled so
ceaselessly that I had to administer a nightly sedative, for the sake of
my work. The fact that you survive is proof that I need no advice from
my own son."

Newton flushed as Stephen burst into a shout of laughter at his expense.

"Thank you for nothing, Chief," he muttered. "I hope you manage your own
affairs better than you did mine."

Helen bit her lip as she looked round the table. She reminded herself
that these people were all her ethical superiors. They were
better-educated than herself, and had money and leisure. The Warrens had
intellect and culture, while Simone had travelled, and had knowledge of
the world.

She always sat silent through a meal, since it would require moral
courage for her to take any part in the general conversation. Miss
Warren, however, usually made some attempt to include the help.

"Have you seen any good Pictures, lately?" she asked, choosing a subject
likely to appeal to a girl who never read the _Times_.

"Only films of general interest," replied Helen, whose recent visits to
a Cinema had been confined to the free show at Australia House.

"I saw the _Sign of the Cross_, just before I left Oxford," broke in
Simone. "I adore Nero."

The Professor showed some signs of interest.

"_Sign of the Cross_?" he repeated. "Have they revived that junk? And
does the proletariat still wallow in an orgy of enthusiasm over that
symbol of superstition?"

"Definitely," replied Simone. "The applause was absurd."

"Amusing," sneered the Professor. "I remember seeing the Play--Wilson
Barrett and Maud Jeffries took the leading parts with a
fellow-undergraduate. This youth was devoted to racing and completely
unreligious. But he developed a sporting interest in the progress of the
Cross. It appealed to him as a winner, and he roared and clapped, in its
scene of ultimate triumph, while the tears rained down his face in his
enthusiasm."

The general laughter was more than Helen could bear. Suddenly, to her
own intense surprise, she heard her own voice. "I think
that's--terrible," she said shakily.

Everyone stared at her surprised. Her small face was red, and puckered
up, as though she were about to cry.

"Surely a modern girl does not attribute any virtue to a mere symbol?"
asked the Professor.

Helen felt herself shrivelled by his gaze, but she would not recant.

"I do," she said. "When I left the Convent, in Belgium, the nuns gave me
a cross. It always hangs over my bed, and I wouldn't lose it, for
anything."

"Why not?" asked Newton.

"Because it stands for--for so much," faltered Helen.

"What--exactly?"

Helen felt tongue-tied, under the battery of eyes.

"Everything," she replied vaguely. "And it protects me."

"Archaic," murmured the Professor, while his son continued his
catechism.

"What does it protect you from?" he asked.

"From all evil."

"Then as long as it hung over your bed I suppose you could open your
door to the local murderer?" laughed Stephen.

"Of course not," declared Helen, for she stood in no awe of the pupil.
"The Cross represents a Power which gave me life. But it gave me
faculties to help me to look after that life for myself."

"Why, she believes in Providence, too," said Simone.

"She will tell us next she believes in Santa Claus."

Hard-pressed, Helen looked around the table. She seemed ringed about
with gleaming eyes and teeth, all laughing at her.

"I only know this," she declared in a trembling voice, "if I was like
all of you I wouldn't want to be alive."

To her surprise, support came from an unexpected quarter, for Stephen
suddenly clapped his hands. "Bravo," he said. "Miss Capel's got more
spunk than the lot of us put together. She's taken us on, five to one,
and she's only a fly-weight. Hang it all, we ought to be ashamed of
ourselves."

"It is not a question of courage," observed the Professor, "but of
muddled thinking and confused value which is definitely hurtful. You,
Miss Capel, are assuming man to be of Divine origin. In reality, he is
so entirely a creature of appetites and instincts, that--given a
knowledge of this key-interest--anyone could direct his destiny. There
is no such thing as the guidance of Providence."

Newton thrust his head forward, his eyes gleaming behind his spectacles.

"Rather interesting, Chief," he said. "I'd like to have a shot at
developing a crime picture on those lines. No crude sliding-panels or
clutching hands. Make one character do something which would set the
rest into motion, so that each would do the natural and obvious thing."

"You have some glimmering of my meaning," approved his father. "Man is
but clay, animated by his natural lusts."

Suddenly Helen forgot her subordinate position--forgot that she had a
new job to hold down. She sprang to her feet and pushed back her chair.

"Please excuse me, Miss Warren," she said, "but I can't stay--and
listen--"

"Oh, Miss Capel," expostulated Newton, "we were merely arguing. There
was nothing personal intended."

Before he could finish, Helen was out of the room and rushing down the
kitchen stairs. She found Mrs. Oates in the scullery, busy stacking
dirty dishes.

"Oh, Mrs. Oates," she wailed, "I've made such a fool of myself."

"That's all right, my dear, so long as nobody makes a fool of you," was
the consoling reply. "Now, I want Oates to help me with the washing-up.
So, suppose, you take up the coffee for him?"

Helen's courage timed with her reviving curiosity. She wanted to see
what effect her outburst had created on her audience.

"Oh, well, I suppose I'd better get it over," she sighed. But when she
carried the coffee-tray into the drawing-room, she realised that the
episode was already forgotten.

The young people took their cups mechanically, as they heatedly debated
the alleged attractions of a celebrated film-star. Miss Warren was
cutting the pages of a new scientific journal, while the Professor had
retired to his study.

Suddenly Mrs. Oates appeared in the doorway.

"The nurse is downstairs and wants a word with the master," she said.

"He cannot be disturbed," Miss Warren told her.

"But it's important. It's her ladyship's life."

Everyone looked up at the dramatic statement. The household had waited
so long for the old terror upstairs to die that it had grown to accept
her as immortal. Helen's thoughts flew to the unmade will, and the vital
importance of getting her signature before she struck her colours to
death."

"Is she sinking?" asked Newton.

"No, sir," replied Mrs. Oates. "But the nurse says as we are out of
oxygen."



CHAPTER XII. THE FIRST GAP



Newton broke the stunned silence.

"Who's responsible for such infernal carelessness?" he asked.

Miss Warren and Helen exchanged glances of mingled guilt and
condemnation. While neither was exactly clear in her own conscience,
each wanted to shift the responsibility on to the other. As employer,
Miss Warren was allowed the first thrust.

"Miss Capel, didn't you screw the cap on the cylinder, after use?" she
asked.

"No, because you sent me out of the room."

"But, surely you did so, before you went?"

"I couldn't, because you had the cylinder."

Helen spoke with firmness, for the reason that she was not quite clear.
Fortunately, Miss Warren was equally confused.

"Had I?" she murmured. "Yes, I believe I was giving oxygen to Lady
Warren. But I have a dim recollection of screwing on the cap."

"What's the good of arguing?" broke in Newton. "The thing is, to get in
a second supply as soon as possible."

"Yes, that is the essential point," she said. "I will speak to the
Professor."

Helen followed her into the study, to find that Nurse Barker had got
there before them. Her heavy voice had lost some of its culture as she
talked volubly to the Professor.

"It is unusual to come to a case and find such slackness," she said.
"I'd like to know who's responsible."

As she spoke, she fixed her deep-set eyes on Helen.

"I am," replied Miss Warren quietly.

She appeared indifferent to Helen's look of gratitude, as she spoke to
her brother.

"I suppose we must order another cylinder, at once."

"Oh, there's no great hurry," broke in Nurse Barker.

"She will go through the night quite well, on brandy. She--"

"Allow me to speak, please, Nurse." The Professor raised his hand in
protest. "The doctor told me, this evening that Lady Warren's condition
is critical."

"A green country doctor?" sneered Nurse Barker. "She's not as bad as
that. I know when a patient is going to die, and it's when I say she
is."

"The doctor's opinion stands," said the Professor coldly. "I will
telephone for another cylinder to be rushed out, at once."

"The Factory will be closed," objected Miss Warren.

"And they'll never send it out to this wilderness, in such a storm,"
added Nurse Barker.

"In that case, someone must fetch it." The Professor spoke decisively.
"Lady Warren's life shall not be risked for the sake of sparing someone
a little trouble."

Helen listened rather guiltily, for she feared that Dr. Parry had
stressed the gravity of the case for her sake.

"Does Lady Warren know that the doctor said I'm not to sleep in her room
tonight?" she asked, anxious to have the matter clinched by the
Professor's authority.

"Did he say that, too?" demanded Nurse Barker, a militant gleam in her
eye.

The Professor pressed his brow with an impatient gesture, which made
Helen realise that Nurse Barker--in rousing his antagonism--was proving
her own unconscious ally.

"The doctor expects a crisis," he explained, "so naturally a trained
nurse must be in attendance."

"Why don't you have a second nurse?" asked Nurse Barker.

"We have not the accommodation," replied Miss Warren.

"Yes, you have. She"--Nurse Barker nodded at Helen--"can sleep in an
attic. Besides, the bachelor's room will be empty, to-morrow."

Helen stared at this revelation of a perceptive talent which eclipsed
her own. In this brief time, the nurse--while apparently not leaving her
patient--had mapped the house.

"There is not enough work for two nurses," said Miss Warren. "The other
nurses have all assured me that Lady Warren sleeps nearly all through
the night, so that their rest has not been unduly disturbed. Didn't the
Matron tell you that the salary is proportionate to the demands?"

Nurse Barker grew suddenly meek.

"Yes, thank you," she said, "I'm quite satisfied with the conditions."

The Professor turned to his sister.

"I will telephone myself," he said, going into the hall, followed by
Miss Warren. Left alone with Nurse Barker, Helen broke a heavy silence.

"I'm sorry. But you see, I'm not trained."

"And I am." Nurse Barker's voice was corrosive. "To be 'trained,' means
that I'm made of iron, and can eat leavings, and do without sleep, and
work twenty-five hours to the day."

"It's a shame. But it's not my fault."

"Yes it is." Nurse Barker pounced fiercely. "You hung about to get at
that doctor first, and you coached him what to say. Oh, you needn't
think you can get the better of me. There's little I don't see, and
what's left over I smell. We've not finished with this. If I turn the
last trick--and I've something up my sleeve--you may yet sleep tonight
in the blue room."

Helen was not only scared by the uncanny penetration of the nurse, but
she recognised the cruelty which made her hammer away at her fear of
Lady Warren, like a torturer plucking at a nerve.

To break away from her company, she hurried into the hall, where the
Professor was speaking into the telephone. He raised his hand, as a
signal for her to remain. Presently he hung up the receiver and spoke to
her.

"They can't make delivery until tomorrow, but they have promised to let
my man have a cylinder tonight, from any time up to eleven. Miss Capel,
please let Oates know he is to start, at once."

Helen did not relish her job, when she found Oates stretched before the
kitchen fire, enjoying his first pipe after his work. She admired all
the more his self-control, and the obedience which he had learned in his
Navy days.

He got up instantly, and began to lace up his boots.

"Just as I was looking forward to a nice lay-down on the bed," he said.
"But that's life."

"Shall I ask Mr. Rice to go instead?"

"No, miss. Orders is orders, and the master said Oates. Besides, I
wouldn't trust him with the car. No one but me knows how to ease my
sweetheart up them hills." He turned to his wife. "Mind you lock up the
back after me when I go out to the garage. Remember, you'll have to be
double careful with me away."

Helen felt a pang of dismay at the thought of losing Oates so soon.
Merely to look at his gigantic frame and amiable face, made her feel
safe.

It did not improve matters to realise that she was partly responsible
for her own trouble.

"If I'd gritted my teeth, and said nothing to the doctor he wouldn't
have been sent," she thought. "The Professor said we did things
ourselves. But did anyone make me do it?"

Suddenly she remembered how Nurse Barker had played upon her fears--and
she shivered slightly.

"Oh, I do wish you weren't going," she said to Oates.

"Same here, miss," he replied. "But you'll be all right, with two strong
young gents, to say nothing of that nurse."

"When will you be back?" asked Mrs. Oates.

"It will be just as soon as I can make the grade." He turned to Helen.
"Will you tell the master I'll sound the hooter and wait on the drive
for a bit, in case he wants to speak to me."

Helen delivered his message to the Professor, who had returned to his
study. Although he repressed his irritation, she could see that he was
fretted by the interruption.

"Thank you, Miss Capel," he said. "But Oates knows what to get, and
where to go for it."

Feeling that she wanted to speed his parting, although unseen, Helen
went into the lobby, which was exposed to the full fury of the gale. As
the wind shook the stout door with the impact of a mailed fist, and the
rain gurgled down the pipes, she felt doubly sorry for Oates.

Presently she heard his hooter outside, and longed to open the door to
wish him 'good-bye.' But she remembered how the wind had swayed the
light when she let in the doctor.

The engine of the old crock burst into a series of spluttering
explosions and deepened to a roar, before it gradually died away in the
distance. With a pang of loneliness, Helen slipped through the swing
doors.

She was just in time to witness a lively passage of arms between Miss
Warren and Stephen Rice.

"Is it true," demanded Miss Warren, "that you have a dog in your
bedroom?"

"Perfectly true," replied Stephen flippantly.

"Take it out into the garage, at once."

"Sorry. Can't be did."

Miss Warren lost her habitual calm.

"Mr. Rice," she said, "understand me, please. I will not have an animal
in this house."

"That's all right," Stephen assured her. "I'll push off tonight, and
take my dog with me."

"Where will you go?" asked Newton, who--lounging, with his hands in his
pockets--was an appreciative spectator of the scene.

"_Bull_, of course. They'll put me up--and--they'll be proud to have the
pup."

Simone gave a cry of protest.

"Don't be so childish, Steve. You can't go through this rain. You'd both
be soaked."

Stephen weakened as he gazed through the open door at the fire, leaping
in the drawing room grate.

"I'll stay if the pup stays," he said. "If he goes, I go, too."

"I'll speak to the Professor," cried Simone.

Her husband caught her by the arm.

"Don't worry the Chief," he said. "He's about all in,"

Simone wrenched herself away and rushed into the study. Unlike the rest
of the household, she stood in no awe of the Professor. To her, he was
merely an elderly gentleman to whom she paid a certain deference as her
father-in-law.

In a few minutes, she appeared--her face radiant with triumph--to herald
the Professor.

"I understand," he said, speaking to Stephen, "that there is some
difficulty about a dog. As mistress of my house, Miss Warren's
prejudices are law. But--as it is for one night only--she will relax her
rule."

He turned to his sister.

"You understand, Blanche?" he asked.

"Yes, Sebastian," was the low reply.

She went upstairs, while the Professor returned to his study.

Suddenly Helen remembered her coffee. She never took any in the
drawing-room, because the conventional cups were too small for her
liking. Like a true pantry mouse, she always reboiled what was left in
the pot, adding sufficient milk to make about a pint, which she drank in
her own room.

At the end of the official day, it was etiquette not to disturb Mr. and
Mrs. Oates, whose kitchen became their private property; so she always
used her own saucepan and spirit stove.

Her room seemed a specially attractive refuge tonight, as, down in the
basement, she seemed cut off from the worst of the storm. The light
glowed on her golden walls and ceiling, like artificial sunshine. When
she had settled down in her old basket-chair, she felt too comfortable
to stir. Although the sound of stealthy footsteps, stealing down the
back-stairs, followed by a succession of dull thuds, piqued her
curiosity, for once it was submerged in laziness.

There were faces forming in the red heart of the fire; they peered at
her, from between the coals, and she stared back at them. Her knees felt
pleasantly warmed, and she was at peace with the world.

Presently she heard the footsteps again, ascending the back-stairs. This
time, her nature reasserted itself in a surge of frantic curiosity.
Leaping up, she was just in time to see the tail of Miss Warren's
mushroom-lace gown whisking round the bend of the landing.

Mrs. Oates did not look exactly pleasant when she opened the kitchen
door in answer to Helen's knock.

"You?" she said. "I expected to see Marlene Dietrich. What's the idea of
getting me up, just when I was off my feet?"

"I only wanted to know what Miss Warren was doing down here?" asked
Helen.

"And you got me up--just for that? As if the mistress wasn't free to go
through her own kitchen without leave from you."

"But it's the very first time I've seen her down here," insisted Helen.

"And, please, how long have you been here? Since anny-domminy?" demanded
Mrs. Oates, as she slammed the door.

In a chastened mood, Helen returned to her own room and lit her
spirit-lamp, in order to re-boil the coffee. She was watching the brown
bubbles foam up in the saucepan, when she heard the front-door bell.
Turning out the flame, she rushed upstairs, hoping to be first to let in
the doctor. She had a frantic fight to force the door open, for the wind
seemed whirling in all directions; before she could throw it wide, Dr.
Parry slipped through the aperture, and slammed it behind him. Without a
word, he fastened all the bolts, and put up the chain.

There was an urgency in his manner, and also in his silence; which
excited her to a pitch of fearful expectation.

"Well?" she asked breathlessly. "Why don't you say something?"

"It's a dirty night," he said, taking off his dripping coat, while he
looked at her with stern eyes.

"No, no," she insisted. "Tell me--have you found out the cause of that
poor girl's death?"

"Yes," was the grim reply. "She was murdered."



CHAPTER XIII. MURDER



The news stunned Helen with such a shock of horror that she felt herself
rock, while the house seemed to sway with her, in the wind. When she was
stationary again, she realised that the entire family had gathered in
the hall, and was listening, with strained attention, to Dr. Parry.

"She was strangled," he said.

"When?" asked the Professor.

"Impossible to tell within an hour or so. But I should say, roughly,
about five or six o'clock."

"Strangled," repeated Miss Warren. "Is it--the same kind of murder as
the others?"

"Definitely," replied the doctor. "Only more ferocious. Ceridwen was a
strong girl, and she put up a fight, which enraged him."

"Then"--Miss Warren's face wavered painfully--"if she was murdered in
Captain Bean's garden, the maniac was quite close to us."

"Closer than that," said the doctor. "The murder was actually committed
in the plantation."

A gasp of horror sobbed from Miss Warren's lips, while Simone grasped
Stephen's arm. Even in the midst of her own terrible excitement, Helen
noticed that Mrs. Newton was alive to the amatory possibilities of the
situation, while her husband watched her with contracted eyes.

She felt herself slipping away on a back-wash of recent memories. While
she stood, defenceless and stranded, staring at the stronghold of the
Summit, across a bowl of empty country, she was even then in the company
of Murder. All the time it was creeping nearer--unseen, unheard. She
might even have passed close to It, while It hid in the undergrowth of
the gulley.

But It had smelt her out--marked her down. It knew that she would have
to come, and It waited for her, in the plantation, in evil mimicry of a
tree.

"What a wonderful escape," she thought.

Now that the danger was over, she could almost exult in the adventure,
were it not for the reminder that the tree had not been cheated of its
ultimate prey. The thought of poor Ceridwen, going light-heartedly to a
horrible fate, made her feel faint.

When the mist had cleared from her eyes, it was a relief to notice that
the Professor's face showed no sign of emotion. As he spoke in his
habitual pedantic tones, she felt removed from a dark quivering
landscape--split to reveal lightning glimpses of hell--and back in the
comfortable interior of an English home.

"How do you establish your fact that this murder was committed in the
plantation?" he asked.

"Because there were pine-needles in her clenched hands, and her clothing
showed signs of having been dragged through a hedge. Of course, it is
useless to try to follow the impulses of a distressed brain; but it
seems rum to have taken such an unnecessary precaution. The body could
easily have lain, undiscovered, in the plantation, for many hours."

"And it might not," remarked the Professor. "You can depend on it, there
was some basic idea behind the seeming absurdity."

His son, who shared his dislike of their eccentric neighbour, gave a
chuckle. "Bean must have had a startling homecoming," he said. "A corpse
propped up on his doorstep, to let him in."

"He was a bit upset." Dr. Parry spoke coldly. "It was a nasty shock for
a man of his age. Sudden death is not really amusing--least of all, to
the victim."

His dark eyes flashed angrily over the stolid faces of the young men,
and Simone's vermilion lips--parted eagerly as though to sip sensation.

"I don't want to alarm you people," he said. "No, that's a lie. I do
want to alarm you. Thoroughly. I want you all to realise that there is a
criminal lunatic at large, who has tasted blood, and will probably lust
for more. And he's somewhere near, quite close to you."

"Will--will he try to break in here?" quavered Miss Warren.

"Don't give him a chance. I take it for granted that the Professor will
insist on everyone remaining in the house. It goes without saying that
you will lock every door and window. Don't underdo your
precautions--however ridiculous they may appear."

"I have seen to all that. Ever since the--the governess," Miss Warren
told him.

"Good. It takes a clever woman to realise danger, and her
responsibilities towards her juniors. You'll be all right. Oates, alone,
could account for the chap, with one hand, if he should happen along."

Again Helen was assailed by that odd pang of desolation as she listened
to the Professor's explanation of Oates' absence. She felt strangely
depressed, too, by the thought that Dr. Parry would soon be gone.

His practical, cheerful personality seemed to reduce even murder to its
proper proportions. It was an unnatural evil, which could be guarded
against by natural means--which would prevail, since the defence was so
much more powerful than the attack.

He presented an uncouth figure in contrast with the other men, who were
all in immaculate evening-dress, but when he caught her eye and smiled
at her, she knew, instinctively, that he could inspire both affection
and trust.

Some bright elusive vision quivered before her eyes, filling her with
happiness and hope. She felt she was on the verge of some discovery. But
before she could collect her thoughts the doctor had turned to go.

"I must push off," he said cheerfully. "Professor. I know you understand
the importance of all the men staying in tonight to protect these two
girls."

His glance included Simone, who responded with an alluring smile.

"Peter," she said, leaning her chin on the Professor's shoulder, "you're
not going to let the doctor go without offering him a drink."

Before the doctor could refuse the unspoken invitation, Helen stepped
into the breach.

"I've some coffee, downstairs," she said. "Shall I bring some up?"

"The very thing," remarked the doctor. "But may I come down and dry off
a bit while I mop it up?"

Helen could not resist a feeling of triumph over Simone, as Dr. Parry
clattered after her, down the kitchen stairs. While Simone's man
strained at his chain, she had hers coasting in her wake.

Her sitting-room looked even more cheerful and restful when Dr. Parry
sat opposite to her, gulping coffee from a huge breakfast cup.

"What are you beaming about?" he asked abruptly.

"I ought not to," she said apologetically. "This is all so terrible.
But--it is living. And I've done so very little of that."

"What have you done?" he asked.

"Housework. Sometimes, with children thrown in."

"Yet you keep your tail up?"

"Of course. You never know what's just round the corner."

Dr. Parry frowned.

"Have you never heard that 'Curiosity killed the cat'?" he asked. "I
suppose, if you saw a smoking bomb, you'd feel bound to examine its
fuse?"

"Not if I knew it was a bomb," explained Helen. "But I wouldn't know if
it was, until I'd found out."

"And must you find out?"

"Yes, you must--if you're me."

"I give you up." Dr. Parry groaned. "Haven't you enough wit to realise
that there's a human tiger waiting to turn you into--what's left of
Ceridwen. If you'd seen what I've just seen--"

"Oh, don't," wailed Helen, her face suddenly pinched.

"But I want to frighten you. This sort of lunatic is usually normal in
between his fits of mania. He might be living in this house with you,
and you'd accept him, just as you accept young Rice or the Professor."

Helen shuddered.

"Might it be a woman?" she asked.

"No, unless she was abnormally strong."

"In any case, I should be bound to know."

"No, that is the paralysing part of it," insisted the doctor. "Just
imagine the horror of seeing a friendly face--like my own--suddenly
change into an unfamiliar mask--with murder glaring out of its eyes?"

"Are you trying to tell me someone in this house committed all the
murders?" Helen asked. "Well, I'd take on anyone here, except Oates. He
would be awful, if he turned inside out. A sort of King Kong."

Dr. Parry lost his temper.

"You're making a joke out of it," he said. "But what about a girl who
was frightened of a poor old woman?"

Helen shrivelled, instantly, at the memory.

"I want to thank you for that," she said. "You were a real sport. She's
different. There's something unnatural about her. But I think that
everyone should do all the things they shouldn't do--and then, they
won't."

Dr. Parry laughed as he rose reluctantly from the old creaking
basket-chair.'

"It takes a doctor to disentangle that," he said. "But I imagine you
refer to moral inoculation."

"Yes," nodded Helen. "Like being vaccinated against small-pox."

"And would you like to have an injection of your own vaccine?" he asked.
"Get drunk? Sniff snow? Have a week-end in Brighton?"

"Oh no," objected Helen. "Of course, I didn't mean myself. I'm always
out of things."

As Dr. Parry looked at her, the meaning in his eyes underlined his
words.

"I think, before long, you'll find yourself very much in the picture.
Perhaps Welshmen are more impetuous than Englishmen. In fact, I'm ready
to bet that, within six months, you'll be Mrs. Jones, or Hughes,
or--Parry."

Helen purposely reversed the order of the names, as she smiled back at
him.

"Taken," she told him. "If I'm not Mrs. Parry, or Jones, or the other,
I'll collect off you."

"Done," said the doctor. "You'll lose. But now that I've got outside
your coffee I must go."

"No, wait," said Helen, arrested by a sudden memory. "I want to tell you
something first."

In a few words she gave him a skeleton outline of her adventure with the
tree. There was no need to colour any details, to get her effect this
time; Dr. Parry's eyes were fierce and his lips set in a rigid line, in
his attempt to hide his concern.

"I take back that bit about the bomb," he said. "Thank Heaven, you've
still got a scrap of precious sense of danger."

"Then you don't think me a fool for running away?"

"I think it was probably the wisest thing you've done in your life."

Helen became thoughtful.

"It's a pity I didn't really see him," she remarked. "I mean, when he
turned to a man. Do you think it is a local person, as he was waiting in
the plantation?"

Dr. Parry shook his head.

"No. This is obviously the fifth murder in a series of connected crimes.
As the first two were committed in town, it is probable that the
criminal lives there. What the Police should do is to get acquainted
with the time-table of some respected citizen, and find out if a handful
of fringe is torn from his white silk scarf."

"Do you mean there's a clue?" asked Helen.

"Yes. I found a hank of it inside Ceridwen's mouth. She must have torn
at it, with her teeth, when they were struggling. She didn't make it
easy for him--or he for her. Come with me, to let me out, and see that
every bolt is shot."

Helen obeyed, although she hated to see him go into the streaming
darkness. The dripping laurels of the drive, and the clipped evergreens
on the lawn, shook in the gale, as though straining at their roots.

She banged the door, hearing the click of the spring lock with a
definite sense of security. The hall seemed calm as a millpond after the
howls of the wind. There was serenity in the soft glow of its
lighting--comfort and warmth in the thick pile of the peacock-blue
carpet.

As the hall was empty, Helen ran downstairs to her own room, where Dr.
Parry's presence still seemed to linger. But she had barely seated
herself before the fire when Mrs. Oates' head appeared around the door.

"I'm warning you," she said, in a hoarse whisper. "There's something
queer about that new nurse."



CHAPTER XIV. SAFETY FIRST



Helen stared at Mrs. Oates, with vague misgiving. There was something
unfamiliar in the woman's appearance which eluded her: Her face, still
flushed from the heat of the fire, wore its usual expression of
good-natured surliness, so that Helen was puzzled to account for the
change.

"The nurse?" she repeated. "She's rather a brute--but what's queer about
her?"

"Things," Mrs. Oates nodded mysteriously. "I've noticed them, but taken
no notice. They come back after, and then I wonder what they were."

"What things?" insisted Helen.

"Little things," was the vague reply. "I'd like a word with Oates. He
could tell me."

As her voice thickened, Helen suddenly traced the difference in her to
its source. Something had gone out of her face; her lips hung loosely,
so that her jaw had lost its suggestion of a bulldog grip.

She felt vaguely uneasy. One of her special guards was gone--and the
other had changed. She had no longer the comforting assurance of Mrs.
Oates' protection.

A thread of meaning, however, ran through Mrs. Oates' talk, and Helen
found her attention gripped.

"I want to see Oates," declared the woman, "and ask him just where he
picked up that nurse. A baby could diddle Oates. If someone cut off his
head, and stuck on a cabbage, he'd never notice the difference, and no
more would you."

"But I'm sure he told us he took her from the Nursing Home," Helen
reminded her.

"Yes--and how? I know Oates. He'd drive up, and then, because he hadn't
me to hop out and ring the bell for him, he'd just sound the hooter, and
wait for things to happen. The first body in a cloak and veil, what
hopped inside the car, would be good enough for him."

"Hum," mused Helen. "Still even if she is an impostor, she couldn't have
committed the murder, because she was driving with him, in the car, when
it was committed."

"What murder?" asked Mrs. Oates.

Helen was human enough to relish the importance of announcing tragic
news, which did not touch her personally.

But Mrs. Oates' reception of Ceridwen's death was disappointing. Instead
of being thrilled with horror, she accepted it as though it were an item
in the weekly schedule.

"You don't say," she muttered. "Well, you mark my words. There'll be
another murder before we're one night older, if we're spared to live as
long."

"Aren't you a little ray of sunshine?" exclaimed Helen.

"Well, I don't trust that nurse. Folks said as how the looney must have
had a woman, what used to talk to the girls, and take off their notice,
so as he could spring."

"You mean--a decoy?" asked Helen. "I'll promise you this. If the nurse
invites me to go for a little walk with her in the garden tonight, I
won't go."

"But she's not here for that," said Mrs. Oates. "She's here to open the
door to him."

It was a most unpleasant idea, coming on the heels of Dr. Parry's
revelation. Helen awoke afresh to the loneliness of the storm-bound
house. Even down in the basement, she could hear the fury of the gale,
like a tidal-wave thudding against the shutters of the windows.

"I think I'll go upstairs and see what the others are doing," she said,
feeling that she needed a change of company.

The first person she met in the hall was Stephen Rice. He had opened the
door of the closet where the coats were hung, and had just unhooked his
ancient Burberry from its peg.

"You're never going out in this storm," she cried.

"Hush. I'm stealing off to the _Bull_. I need the company of my fellow
working men to get the taste of this nasty affair out of my mouth. I
might even try the experiment of a glass of beer. I'm the sort of
desperate chap who'd try anything once."

"I believe there's one thing you wouldn't," said Helen, who felt strung
up to a reckless pitch.

"Meaning?"

"Running off with another man's wife."

Stephen followed Helen's glance towards the drawing-room.

"You never said a truer thing," he nodded. "No women for me." Then he
held out his hand. "Sister, can you spare me a dime?"

Helen couldn't believe that he was really borrowing money from her,
until he explained.

"I want to settle my score at the _Bull_. Buying the pup cleaned me
out."

"Where is the pup?" asked Helen.

"Up in my room, asleep on the bed. Sister, what about that dime?"

"I haven't got it," faltered Helen. "I don't get paid until the end of
my month."

"Tough luck. Another country off the Gold Standard. Sorry I asked.
Nothing for it, now, but to touch Simone. She's plenty of chink."

As he spoke Simone sauntered across the hall.

"Where are you going?" she demanded. "First of all, I'm going to you, my
dear, to borrow some cash. Then, I'm going to the _Bull_, to hand over
the said cash."

Simone contracted her painted brows.

"You haven't got to invent any excuse for going to the _Bull_," she told
him. "I know the special attraction."

"Whitey?" groaned Stephen. "For the love of Mike, stop harping on her.
She's a nice little girl. We're friends, and that's all."

He broke off, as Newton came out of the study.

"Will you all come into the study!" he said. "The Chief has an
announcement to make."

The Professor was seated at his table, speaking in a low voice, to his
sister. His face wore a look of exhaustion, which was not lost on Helen.

She noticed, too, the glass of water and the small bottle of white
tablets which stood at his elbow.

"I have something to say," he announced, "which applies to everyone. No
one is to leave this house tonight."

Simone flashed a look of triumph at Stephen, who began to splutter:

"Oh, but, sir, I have an important appointment."

"Then you will not keep it," the Professor informed him.

"But I'm not a baby."

"Prove it. If you are a man, you will realise that we are faced with a
situation of actual danger and that it is the duty of every male member
of this household to remain at home."

Stephen continued to protest.

"I'd stay, like a shot, if there was any sense in it. But it's such
bally rot. Of course, no woman should go out. But they are safe, at
home. The chap wouldn't come inside the house."

"Have you forgotten the girl who was murdered inside her bedroom?" broke
in Miss Warren, in a dead voice.

"Her window was left open," explained Stephen.

"But you heard what the doctor said?" insisted Miss Warren."

"And you've heard what I've said," remarked the Professor sternly. "I'm
master of this house, and I will not have the safety of anyone here
imperilled by disobedience."

Helen felt his glance hover for one moment over her, and her heart
throbbed with gratitude.

"There is another precaution I wish observed," went on the Professor.
"No one is to be admitted to the house, tonight. If anyone knocks, or
rings, he--or she--will remain outside. I forbid the doors being
unbolted, on any pretext whatsoever."

This time objection came from Newton.

"That's rather drastic, Chief," he said. "Anyone might come; the police,
or someone with important news."

The Professor took up a paper as though he were weary of the discussion.

"Those are my orders," he said. "I am only concerned, tonight, with the
safety of those under my roof. But I warn you this. Anyone who goes
outside the house--if only for a minute--will not return. The door will
be locked on him, or her, and it will not be opened again."

A host of disturbing possibilities flitted across Helen's mind. In
particular, she had a vision of Dr. Parry--on a special mission which
concerned herself--standing outside in the rain.

"But, if we recognise the voice, will that alter things?" she asked
timidly.

"Certainly not," said the Professor. "Voices can be imitated. I repeat.
You are to open to no one, man, woman or child."

"Oh, but, Professor, you can't mean a child?" cried Helen. "If I heard
baby crying outside I'd just have to take it in."

The Professor smiled bleakly.

"You'd probably find your baby waiting to grip your throat," he told
her. "Surely you've heard child-impersonators over the wireless, whose
imitations are faultless?"

"He could squeal his head off for all the effect he'd make on me," said
Stephen brutally. "I was done out of my chance of a fortune by an
unexpected Blessed Event in my family. And I promise you this, too. I
wouldn't cross the room for any woman alive."

The look which Simone threw him was a challenge, which was intercepted
by Newton. He gave a faint hoot of laughter.

"Ever heard of Shakespeare, Rice?" he asked caustically. "Or of a
quotation--'Methinks the lady doth protest too much'? We hear so much
about your being a woman-hater, and see so little evidence."

The Professor rapped the table, as though he would silence a noisy
Session.

"That is all," he said. "Miss Capel, will you please pass on my orders
immediately to Mrs. Oates and Nurse Barker?"

"Yes, Professor," said Helen.

Suddenly she was assailed by a fresh complication.

"What about Oates?" she asked.

"He will remain outside," was the relentless reply. "He can garage the
car, and remain there, until the dawn."

"But Lady Warren might want her oxygen?"

"Lady Warren must take her chance with the rest. I am committed to a
policy of Safety First. Perhaps I understand the situation better than
the rest of you. When I was in India, in my youth, I remember a tiger
which prowled outside a cattle-enclosure. Again and again it broke
through the defence, in spite of every precaution."

He dropped his voice, as he added, "There is a tiger, outside this
house, now."

As he spoke, there was the sound of loud knocking on the front door.



CHAPTER XV. SECRET INTELLIGENCE



The knocking ceased, and a bell was pealed which brought Helen
instinctively to her feet.

"I'll answer the door," she said.

She crossed the room before she realised the significance of her action.
No one else had moved; but all were looking at her--their expressions
passive, scornful, or amused, according to temperament.

The Professor nodded at his sister--a sardonic gleam in his eye.

"The weak link," he observed, in an undertone.

The familiarity of the phrase brought home to Helen its special meaning,
so that she coloured to the roots of her hair.

"I'm sorry," she faltered, "but it's second-nature for me to answer a
bell."

"You gave us a demonstration of that," said the Professor acidly. "I
don't wish to be severe, but you must remember that forgetfulness, in
this case, ranks with disobedience."

The knocking was repeated, and again a bell pealed in the distance. Even
although she was under observation, and on her guard, Helen found it an
ordeal to stand by and do nothing.

"It's like watching milk boil over," she thought, "or seeing a child
play with fire. Someone ought to do something. I'm sure it is all
wrong."

She noticed how the muscles of Miss Warren's face quivered at every
blow, and her own nerves twitched in sympathy.

A third assault was made on the door. This time Stephen seemed conscious
of the tension.

"Look here, sir, with due deference to you and all that isn't this going
a bit too far? Cutting all the wires, I mean. That may be the postman,
with an unstamped letter for me, to say my Cousin Fanny has passed out,
and left me her heir."

The Professor explained, with the dreary patience with which he
enlightened a pupil's ignorance. "I have just given an order, Rice. It
would be reactionary conduct on my part to commit the same fault for
which I've just rebuked Miss Capel. If once we begin to make exceptions
to a precaution which is intended for the general safety, it ceases to
have any value."

"Yes, sir." Stephen grimaced at a fourth, and louder assault on the
knocker and bell. "But it gets my goat not knowing who's outside."

"Oh, my dear Rice, why didn't you say that in the beginning?" The
Professor's smile flickered and went out. "Of course, it is the Police."

"Police?" echoed Newton. "Why have they to come here?"

"A mere formality, since the Summit is in the radius of--of this affair.
They will want to know if we can furnish them with any information. If
they would accept a negative answer, and go, I would relax my rule in
their favour."

"But you can't keep them out, Sebastian," cried Miss Warren.

"I have no intention of keeping them out. When they call to-morrow, they
will be admitted. I'm master of my house, and I've wasted too much time
already, tonight."

Through his glasses, his eyes flashed hungrily over the papers on his
desk.

Helen hoped fervently that Mrs. Oates would answer the door, for the
Police seemed a direct answer to prayer. She had a mental vision of a
compact body of solid, uniformed men, bringing with them the protection
of the Law.

Suddenly she thought that she might force the Professor's hand.

"But I could tell them something," she said.

"Miss Capel," he said, in measured tones, "have you any clear, concise
knowledge that will be of definite use to the Police? For instance--have
you seen the criminal, so that you could describe him?"

"No," replied Helen.

"Then, have you any idea as to who he is, or where he is?"

"No," replied Helen, wishing she could sink into the floor.

"Well--have you any valuable theory?"

"No, but--but I think he hides behind trees."

Simone led the suppressed laughter, in which even Miss Warren joined.

"Thank you, Miss Capel," said the Professor. "I think the Police can
wait for your help, until to-morrow morning."

Helen's heart sank, It seemed always "to-morrow," and she still dreaded
the night which divided her from the dawn.

The Professor, however, seemed to have some pity for her confusion, for
he spoke to her, in the voice of a considerate employer.

"Now, Miss Capel, will you be so kind as to tell Mrs. Oates and Nurse
Barker, my decision."

"Indeed, I will," Helen assured him.

"I suppose Gran doesn't know about the murder?" asked Newton.

"No," replied Miss Warren, "neither she nor the nurse can know. I'm the
only person who has been upstairs, since Dr. Parry brought us the news.
And I should certainly not dream of alarming her."

"She must not be told," commanded the Professor.

The hall was silent when Helen passed through it. The Professor had worn
down the patience of the Police, who happened to be in the singular
person. After exposure to what was practically a water-spout, he drew
his own conclusion from the barred windows, and decided to call by
daylight. Apparently the fear of the maniac had spread from the cottages
to the big houses of the neighbourhood.

When Helen reached the kitchen, to her surprise, she was unable to
enter. At first, Mrs. Oates did not answer her tap; but presently, a
huge distorted shadow crossed the frosted glass of the door, and a key
clicked in the lock.

Mrs. Oates towered over her, with a confused red face and sleepy eyes.

"Must have lost myself," she explained.

"But is it safe to go to sleep with the door locked?" asked Helen,
"Suppose your clothes caught on fire, and we couldn't get at you?"

"Yes, you could. Nearly all the locks here has the same key; only you
can't turn them, because they're never used,"

"Naturally," said Helen. "You only lock your door in loose houses, and
hotels. I've always taken pure situations, and I've never locked my door
in my life."

"Well, if I was you, I'd oil my key, and lock my door, tonight," said
Mrs. Oates.

"How useful," laughed Helen, "if any other key would fit it."

"But theirs would be rusty," explained Mrs. Oates.

When Helen delivered the Professor's message, she jerked her head
defiantly.

"Thank his lordship for nothing. Doors are not my work, and never was."

As she retreated inside the kitchen, Helen caught her sleeve.

"Please, Mrs. Oates, don't lock the door," she entreated.

"I'd hate to feel I couldn't reach you. I'm such a fool, tonight. But I
depend on you, more than anyone else in the house."

"That's right." Mrs. Oates shot out her jaw in the old aggressive way.
"If anyone gets in, I'll knock his block off."

With the comforting assurance ringing in her ears, Helen mounted the
stairs, to the blue room, which had regained some of its former
fascination. As though she had been listening for her step, the door
slid open an inch, to reveal. Nurse Barker.

"I've something to tell you," Helen whispered. "There's been another
murder."

Nurse Barker listened to every detail. She asked questions about
Ceridwen's character, her duties about the house, her lovers. At the end
of the story, she gave a short laugh.

"She's no loss, Her sort asks for it."

"What d' you mean by 'her sort'?" asked Helen.

"Oh, I know the type. You've not got to tell me. Sluttish. Little dark
eyes, saying 'Come into a dark corner,' to every man. A slobbery red
mouth, saying 'kiss me'. A lump of lust."

Helen stared as Nurse Barker reeled off the glib description, for she
had not mentioned Ceridwen's personal appearance.

"Have you heard of Ceridwen before?" she asked.

"Of course not."

"Then how did you know what she looked like?"

"Welsh."

"But all Welsh girls are not like that."

Nurse Barker merely changed the subject. "As for the Professor's orders
about the doors, they are not necessary, Answering doors is not part of
a nurse's duty. And I should certainly not risk my life by going
outside, in this storm. It is an insult to my intelligence."

Helen felt more at her ease when Nurse Barker exalted her own
importance. She became a definite type, which, although unpleasant, was
only too common, in her experience. It did not pair with that mephitic
shade--raised by Mrs. Oates--the midnight hag, who crept down the
stairs, when the household was asleep, to let in Murder.

"Nurse!"

At the familiar bass voice, Nurse Barker turned to Helen.

"I want to go down to the kitchen, to see about certain things," she
said, "Could you stay with her?"

"Certainly," replied Helen.

"Not frightened now?" sneered Nurse Barker. "When did you have a change
of heart?"

"I was just silly before," explained Helen. "I'm a bit run down. But now
we've got something real to fight, fancies must go to the wall."

With her old confidence, she entered the blue room, expecting a welcome.
But Lady Warren seemed to have forgotten her former interest.

"What was all that knocking?" she asked.

"You've very keen hearing," said Helen, while she tried to think of some
explanation.

"I can see--hear--smell--feel--taste," snapped Lady Warren, "and better
than you. Can you tell the difference between an underdone steak--and
one that is rare?"

"No," replied Helen.

The next question raised a more unpleasant issue. "Could you aim at the
whites of a man's eyes, and pot them?...What was that knocking?"

"It was the postman," explained Helen, lying to meet the Professor's
instructions. "Oates has been sent out, for fresh oxygen, as you know,
and I was somewhere else; so no one heard him, at first."

"Disgraceful organisation in my house," stormed Lady Warren. "You
needn't stare. It's still my house. But I had servants in livery...Only
they all left...Too many trees..."

The whimper in her voice was not assumed, and Helen knew that the past
had gripped her again.

But even while she sympathised with this derelict of time, Lady Warren
became several degrees more vital than herself; for she heard footsteps
on the stairs which had been inaudible to Helen, and her eyes brightened
in anticipation.

The door swung open, and the Professor entered the bedroom.

Helen was interested to notice how the sex-instinct triumphed, even on
the threshold of the grave, for Lady Warren's reception of her stepson
was very different from her treatment of any woman.

"So, at last, you condescend to visit me?" she exclaimed. "You're late,
tonight, Sebastian."

"I'm sorry, _madre_," apologised the Professor. He stood--a tall, formal
figure--at the foot of the bed--in the shadow of the blue canopy.

"Don't go," he whispered to Helen. "I'm not remaining long."

"But the post was late, too," remarked Lady Warren, casually.

Helen's respect for the Professor's intelligence was increased by his
immediate grasp of her subterfuge.

"He was delayed by the storm," he explained.

"Why didn't he push the letters through the slit?"

"There was a registered letter."

"Hum...I want a cigarette, Sebastian."

"But your heart? Is it wise?"

"My heart's no worse than yesterday, and you didn't make a dirge about
it then. Cigarette."

The Professor opened his case. Helen watched the pair, as he leaned over
the bed, a lighted match in his fingers. The flame lit up the hollow of
his bony hand, and Lady Warren's face.

Helen could tell that she was an experienced smoker, by the way she
savoured her smoke before blowing it out in rings.

"News," she commanded.

In his dry voice, the Professor gave her a summary, which reminded Helen
of the _Times_ leading article chopped up into mincemeat.

"Politicians are all fools," remarked Lady Warren. "Any murders?"

"I must refer you to Mrs, Oates. They are more in her line than mine,"
replied the Professor, turning away, "If you will excuse me, _madre_, I
must get back to my work."

"Don't overdo it," she advised. "You look very old-fashioned about the
eyes."

"I've not slept well." The Professor smiled bleakly. "Were it not that I
know it to be a popular fallacy, I should say I had not a single minute
of sleep, during the night. But I must have lost consciousness, for
minutes at a stretch, for there was a gap in the chimes of the clock."

"Ah, you're a clever man, Sebastian. The fools of nurses pretend that
they wake if one of my hairs falls out--but they sleep like pigs. I
could roll about, on wheels, and they wouldn't stir. Blanche, too. She
dropped off, in her chair, when it was growing dusk, but she'd never
admit it."

"Then you couldn't use her to establish an alibi," said the Professor
lightly.

Helen wondered why the speech affected her disagreeably. Whenever she
was inside the blue room, its atmosphere seemed to generate poison-cells
in her brain.

"Where's Newton?" asked the old lady.

"He'll be coming up to see you, soon."

"He'd better. Tell him life is short, so he'd better not be late for the
Grand Good Night."

The Professor shook her formally by the hand and wished her a restful
night. In obedience to his glance, Helen followed him outside the door.

"Impress on the nurse, when she returns, not to let Lady Warren know
about what happened tonight."

"Yes, I understand," nodded Helen.

When she came back, Lady Warren was watching her intently, with black
crescent eyes.

"Come here," she said. "Another murder has just been committed. Have
they found the body?"



CHAPTER XVI. THE SECOND GAP



As Helen listened, a herd of vague suspicions and fears galloped through
her mind. Lady Warren spoke with the ring of authority. She was not
guessing blindly; she knew something--but not enough.

It was this half-knowledge which terrified Helen. Had any of Dr. Parry's
audience told her about the murder she would naturally have heard, also,
about the discovery of the body in Captain Bean's garden.

Nurse Barker, alone, stood outside the circle of informed listeners.
That fact did not necessarily assume the most sinister significance. To
use the Professor's phrase, her alibi was established. When Ceridwen was
being done to death, she was bumping, in the old car, towards the
Summit, in Oates' company.

Yet--if she had told her patient--she must have possessed some horrible
specialised knowledge of the movements, or intentions of the
maniac--which stopped short with the commission of the murder.

As Lady Warren gripped her wrist, Helen realised that it was useless to
lie.

"How do you know?" she asked.

The old woman did not reply. She gave a hoarse gasp. "Ah! Then they've
found her. That knocking was the Police. I knew it. Tell me all."

"It was Ceridwen," Helen said. "You remember? She used to dust under
your bed, and you objected to her feet. She was strangled in the
plantation, about tea-time, and carried afterwards to Captain Bean's
garden. He found her."

"Any clue?"

"One. She tore out a handful of fringe from the murderer's white silk
scarf."

"That's all. Go away," commanded Lady Warren. She pulled up the sheet,
and covered her face entirely, as though she were already dead.

On her guard against foxing, Helen sat by the fire, where she could
watch the bed. Although one fear had swallowed up the other--like two
large snakes snatching at the same play--she had an instinctive dread of
exposing her back to Lady Warren.

To steady her nerves, she made a mental inventory of the situation

"There's the Warren family--four; Mrs. Oates, Nurse Barker, Mr. Rice and
me. Eight of us. We ought to be more than a match for one man, even if
he's as clever and cunning as the Professor says."

Then her mind slipped back to a former situation, as nursery-governess
in the house of a financier. With her phonographic memory for phrases,
she reproduced one o his remarks to his wife.

"We want a merger. Separate interests are destructive."

Her face grew graver as she thought of heated passions rising to
boiling-point, and the strangling complications of the triangle. Had she
known of the actual situation in the drawing-room, she would have been
still more worried.

Stephen was affected most adversely by the confinement. He was not only
specially rebellious against closed windows, but he was nervous of
Simone. Her ardent glances made him uncomfortable, as he remembered the
Oxford episode, when he had been made the goat in another undergraduate
amour.

He remembered that when the wretched girl had screamed, Newton had been
first to come to her alleged rescue, and that he had always been
censorious in his judgement, and his refusal to believe in Stephen's
innocence. Even then, the seeds of jealousy had been sown, although
Simone had only expressed vague admiration for a regular profile.

It had been perversity on his part which made him become the Professor's
pupil, in order that his son might feel some sense of obligation--an
impulse which he had repented, since the visit of the young couple to
the Summit. He stopped his ceaseless pacing of the carpet, to address
Newton.

"With due respect, and all that sort of bilge, to your worthy father,
Warren, he doesn't get our angle. Our generation isn't afraid of any old
thing--dead, alive, or on the go. It's being cooped up together, like
rats in a drain, that gets me."

"But I'm adoring it," thrilled Simone. "It's like a lot of married
couples being snow-bound, in one hut. When they come out, just watch how
they'll pair off."

She seemed lost to all sense of convention, as she stared at Stephen
with concentrated eagerness, as though they were together on a desert
island.

Completely unselfconscious, she never realised the presence of an
audience. A spoilt brat, who'd been given the run of the toyshop to
sack, she simply could not understand why her desire for any special
plaything should not be instantly gratified.

"What are your plans, Stephen?" she asked.

"First of all," he told her, "I shall fail in my Exam."

"Fine advertisement for the Chief," remarked Newton.

"After that," continued Stephen, "I shall probably go to Canada, and
fell timber."

"Your dog will have to go into quarantine," Newton reminded him
spitefully.

"Then I'll stay in England, just to please you, Warren. And I'll come
and have tea with Simone, every Sunday afternoon, when you're having
your nap."

Newton winced, and then glanced at the clock.

"I must go up to Gran. Any use asking you to come with me, Simone? Just
to say 'Good night'?"

"None."

Raising his high shoulders, Newton shambled from the room.

When he had gone, Stephen made an instinctive movement towards the door.
Before he could reach it, however, Simone barred his way.

"No," she cried. "Don't go. Stay and talk. You were telling me your
plans--and they're pathetic. Supposing you had money, what would you
do?"

"Supposing?" Stephen laughed. "I'd do the usual things. Sport. A spot of
travel. A flutter at Monte."

"Does it appeal?"

"You bet. A fat lot of good it is talking about it."

"But I have money."

"How nice for you," he said.

"Yes. I can do anything. It makes me secure."

"No woman should feel too secure." Stephen strained desperately to keep
the scene on a light level. "It makes her despise Fate."

Simone appeared not to hear him, as she came closer and laid her hands
upon his shoulders. "Steve," she said, "when you go away, to-morrow, I'm
coming with you."

"Oh, no, you're not, my dear," he said quickly.

"Yes," she insisted. "I'm mad about you."

Stephen licked his lips desperately.

"Look here," he said, "you're jumpy and all worked-up. You're delirious.
You don't mean one word. To begin with--there's old Newton."

"He can divorce me. I don't care. If he doesn't, I still don't care.
We'd have lots of fun together."

Stephen cast a hunted glance towards the door. Fright made him brutal.

"I don't care for you," he said.

The repulse had only the effect of making her more ardent.

"I'll soon make you care for me," she said confidently. "You're just a
silly boy with inhibitions."

Exultantly, she raised her face to his, her lips expectant of his kiss.
When he shook her off, the first shade of doubt crept into her eyes.

"There's another woman," she said. "That's why."

Desperation made him lie.

"Of course," he told her. "There always is."

He was both startled and relieved by her reception of his news. Her face
lost its look of immaculate and finished artifice, and crumpled up with
elemental rage.

"I hate you," she cried furiously. "I hope you'll go to the dogs and die
in the gutter."

Rushing from the room, she banged the door behind her. Stephen took a
deep breath and then thumped his chest.

"Thank the pigs," he said piously.

But the incident left him worried. He wondered whether Simone
contemplated some mean form of revenge. Assuring himself that it was no
good meeting trouble halfway, as on the morrow he would be gone, for
good, he tried to forge this problem in the excitement of a
thrill-novel.

Presently he became aware that his attention was no longer gripped. He
kept raising his eyes from the pages, to listen. Above the howls of the
gale rose a faint whine. It sounded like a dog in distress.

He bit his lip and frowned in perplexity. In spite of his objection, he
realised that the Professor's precautions were probably sound, and he
was prepared to obey them to the last letter. But, while the Professor
had referred to "man, woman, or child" he had forgotten to include any
animal.

Stephen frowned as he realised that he was up against an acid test. If
this were a trap, some unknown brain had detected his blind spot, and
knew how to exploit it.

"It's Newton," he thought. "He's trying to lure me outside, so I'll be
shut out. The fool thinks he's got to protect his wife from me."

Again the faint howl was borne on the wind, bringing him to his feet.
But again he sat down.

"Hang it," he muttered aloud. "I won't. They shan't get at me. It's not
fair to risk the women."

He took up his novel, and tried to concentrate on what he read. But the
lines of print were a meaningless jumble of words, because he was
awaiting--and dreading--a repetition of the cry.

At last, it came--pitiful and despairing, as though the creature were
growing weaker. Unable to sit still, he stole out into the lobby and
unbolted the front door. As he put his head outside, the wind seemed
about to tear off his ears, but it also bore the barking of a dog.

While it might be a faithful animal imitation, there was something
familiar about the sound. Struck by a sudden suspicion, Stephen
cautiously rebolted the door and hurried up to his room.

"Otto," he cried, as he threw open the door.

But no dog leaped to welcome him. The bed was tidy and the room had been
hurriedly put in order.

"The dirty tykes," he said. "They've run him out. This settles it. I
clear out, too."

Swearing under his breath, he hurriedly changed into his old tweeds and
laced on thick shoes. Bag in hand, he clumped down the back-stairs. No
one saw him, when he crossed the hall, but, as he banged the front door
behind him, Helen heard the slam.

Newton's visit to his grandmother had released her from her vigil, as
the old lady had ordered her from the room. Although it was her usual
bed-time, Helen decided to break her rule of early hours.

The whole household was upset; while boredom usually drove the family
prematurely to their rooms, they all seemed restless tonight.

Mrs. Oates, also, would be sitting up to let in her husband. Helen felt
she had better share her vigil, in case she should drop off to sleep
again, and miss his ring. She flew to the front door, just in time to
recognise Stephen as he retreated through slanting sheets of rain.

As the light flashed out over the gravel drive, he turned and shouted to
her defiantly:

"Lock up. I'm never coming back."

Helen hastened to slam the door and re-fasten the bolts.

"Well," she said. "The young rip."

She was laughing over the incident when Nurse Barker came up from the
kitchen.

"What was that noise?" she asked suspiciously.

"Mr. Rice has gone," Helen told her.

"Where?"

"He didn't tell me, but I can make a pretty good guess. He's been
terribly keen to go to the _Bull_, to pay up and say 'Goodbye.'"

Nurse Barker's deep-set eyes glinted angrily.

"He's disobeyed the Professor and risked our safety," she stormed. "It's
criminal."

"No, it's all right," Helen assured her. "I locked up after him,
directly. And he's not coming back."

Nurse Barker laughed bitterly.

"So it's all right, is it?" she asked. "Don't you realise that now we
have lost our two best men?"



CHAPTER XVII. WHEN LADIES DISAGREE



As Helen stared at Nurse Barker, she was appalled by the revelation of
her eyes. Anger had given way to a murky gleam of satisfaction, as
though she realised the weakening of the defence.

Remembering that she was marked out for distinctive bait, the knowledge
inspired the girl with defiance.

"We've still two men," she said. "And, five women--all able-bodied and
strong."

"Are you strong?" asked Nurse Barker, sneering down at Helen, from her
superior height.

"I'm young."

"Yes, you're young. You may remember that--before you're much older.
And--perhaps--you may regret your youth."

Helen tossed back her red mane impatiently.

"I suppose the Professor ought to be told about Mr. Rice," she said.

"And, of course, you will tell him."

"Why--me?" asked Helen.

"He's a man."

"Look here, Nurse," Helen said, in her mildest voice, "I think that
bickering, just now, is silly. We all want to pull together. We don't
want to keep harping on men. And I'm sure you don't want me to be the
next victim. You're too good a sport."

"I have no ill-feeling towards you," Nurse Barker assured her in a
muffled voice.

"Good," said Helen. "When you go up to Lady Warren, will you tell Mr.
Newton what's happened, and ask him to let his father know."

Nurse Barker bowed her head, in stately assent, and began to mount the
staircase. Helen stood in the hall, watching her flat-footed ascent, as
the tall white figure gradually towered above her.

"You can wear high Spanish heels, when you're small," she thought,
looking down, with satisfaction, at her own feet. "She walks just like a
man."

She noticed that, as Nurse Barker retreated, she appeared little more
than a dim glimmer crossing the dimly-lit landing, as though some
ghostly shape were rising from its churchyard bed. The illusion reminded
her of her own experience, before dinner, when she had been appalled by
a momentary vision of evil.

"It must have been the Professor," she assured herself. "I fancied the
rest."

Suddenly she remembered, an additional detail. The Professor had emerged
from his bedroom, whereas she had another recollection of a door being
opened and then shut immediately.

"Odd," she thought. "The Professor wouldn't open his door, and then slam
it--and then open it again. There's no sense in that."

Staring up at the landing, she noticed that the door of the Professor's
bedroom was close beside that of the back staircase. Someone might have
looked out from the one, just as the other was opening, with the
meticulous timing of a lucky chance.

The notion was not only absurd, but so disquieting that Helen refused to
admit it.

"No one could have got into the house," she told herself. "It was all
locked up, when Ceridwen was strangled. But, supposing there was some
secret way in, of course the murderer could have rushed from the
plantation and been lurking on the back-stairs, when I saw him. Only, it
was the Professor."

In spite of the seeming impossibility of anyone entering the fortress,
she began to wonder, if--for a minute or so any chink had been left in
the defence. At the back of her mind, something was worrying
her...Something forgotten--or overlooked.

She had been unmethodical, all the evening, breaking off in the middle
of a job to start another. For example, she had not even begun to screw
up the handle of Miss Warren's bedroom door. Before she had discovered
how to tackle the difficulty, she had been interrupted by the Professor,
and left her tools lying on the landing.

"Anyone might think I was untidy," she thought. "I'll go up again and
experiment a bit."

As the resolution crossed her mind, it was swept aside by the spectacle
of Newton, hurrying down the stairs. His sallow face was flushed with
excitement, as he spoke to her.

"So the noble Rice has walked out on us?"

"Yes," replied Helen. "I was there when he went--and I locked him out."

"Good...I suppose he was alone?"

"I only saw him on the drive. But it was very dark and confusing in the
rain.

"Quite." Newton's eyes flickered behind his glasses. "Do you mind
waiting here, just for a minute?"

Helen knew what was in his mind as he galloped upstairs to the second
floor, and she smiled over his groundless fear, even while she knew that
she could have saved him his journey, at the expense of tact.

A minute later, he clattered down again, ostentatiously flourishing a
clean handkerchief, to excuse his flight.

"My wife is a bit upset," he remarked casually. "Headache, and so on.
Perhaps you'd see if you could do something for her, when you've time?"

"Certainly," promised Helen.

Newton's smile was so unexpectedly boyish, that Helen understood the
secret of his popularity with his womenkind.

"What a lot we Warrens expect for our money," he said. "I do hope you get
a decent salary. You earn it. Now, we must tell the Chief about Rice."

Once again, Helen was flattered at being asked to help him. Although her
sympathies were with Stephen, she had infinitely more respect for
Newton. All the men seemed to be inviting her co-operation, that night;
instead of being in the background, she was constantly on the boards.

It was true that she was there chiefly to feed the principals, and was
not picked out by the limelight; but, in the circumstances, it seemed
safer not to advertise. She even congratulated herself that Nurse Barker
was not present to witness her entrance into the study, since personal
triumph was not worth more friction.

The Professor was lying back in his chair, with his eyes closed, as
though in concentration. He did not open his lids, until Newton called
his name. When he did so, Helen thought that his pupils looked curiously
fixed and glassy.

Apparently, Newton shared her impression.

"Been mopping up the _quadronex_?" he asked.

The Professor's stare reproved the impertinence.

"As I'm the financial head of this house," he observed, "I have to
conserve my strength, for the benefit of my dependants. I must insure
some sleep, tonight...Have you anything to tell me?"

His lips tightened as he listened to Newton's news.

"So. Rice rebelled against my restrictions?" he said. "That young man
may develop into a good citizen, ultimately, but, at present, I fear he
is a Goth."

"I should call him a bad relapse," remarked Newton.

"Still, he was a hefty barbarian," his father reminded him. "In his
absence, Newton, you and I have more to do."

"Which means myself, Chief. You're a bit past tackling a maniac."

Helen guessed that the Professor was irritated by the remark.

"My brain remains at your service," he said. "Unfortunately, I was only
able to pass on a section of it to my son."

"Thanks, Chief, both for the compliment and your help. I am afraid a
formula for poison-gas hardly meets the case. We need brute-force."

The Professor smiled bleakly.

"My despised brain may yet prove the trump-card," he said. "Does Simone
know that Rice has left?"

"Yes." Newton bristled at the implication. "What of it?"

"I leave that to you."

"She's got a headache," said Helen. "Mr. Warren has asked me to see to
her."

The Professor's eyes slanted slightly inwards, as though he were trying
to peer inside the lighted recesses of his brain.

"An excellent idea," he said. "Remember my daughter-in-law is
temperamental. You may have to influence her, but don't irritate her."

He whispered to his son, who nodded, and passed on the instruction.
"Miss Capel, it might be wiser not to leave her alone."

Helen felt rather important as she went up to the red room, although she
was slightly doubtful of the success of her mission. As she paused
outside the door, she could hear the sounds of strangled sobbing. No
notice was taken of her knock, so she entered, uninvited--to find Simone
stretched, face downwards, on the bed.

"Oh, your lovely dress," she cried. "You'll ruin it."

Simone raised her head, showing a tear-streaked face.

"I hate it," she snarled.

"Then take it off. Anyway, you'll feel freer in a wrapper."

It was second nature to Simone, to be waited on, so she made no protest
as Helen peeled the sheath-like gown over her head.

The younger girl took rather a long time in her selection of a
substitute, from the wardrobe. The sight of so many beautiful garments
aroused her wistful envy.

"What lover-ly things you have," she said, as she returned to the bed,
carrying a wisp of georgette and lace, which was less substantial than
the discarded gown.

"What's the good of them?" asked Simone bitterly. "There's no man to see
them."

"There's your husband," Helen reminded her.

"I said 'man.'"

"Shall I get you some aspirin for your head?" asked Helen, who was
determined to keep Simone's ailments on a strictly physical basis.

"No," replied Simone. "I feel foul. But it's not that. I'm so terribly
unhappy."

"But you've everything," cried Helen.

"Everything. And nothing I want. My whole life has been one of
sacrifice. Whenever I want something, it's taken from me."

She coiled herself into a sitting posture, as a prelude to confidence.
While her make-up was ruined, the tempest had swept harmlessly over her
plastic coiffure, for her hair gleamed like unflawed black enamel.

"Has Stephen Rice ever flirted with you?" she asked.

"No," replied Helen. "And, if he did, I shouldn't tell you. Affairs
should be kept private."

"But, my good woman, how can they be? One goes out--balls, restaurants,
and so on. And there's always the inevitable man."

"I wasn't thinking of you," said Helen. "I was naturally speaking for
myself."

"You? Have you a lover?"

"Of course," replied Helen recklessly, as she remembered Dr. Parry's
prophecy. "I'm sorry, but I'm more interested in myself than you. Of
course, I know that you have your photograph in the papers and that
people talk about you. But to me, you're a type. I see lots like you,
everywhere."

Simone stared incredulously at Helen, whom she had only vaguely noticed
as someone small, who wore a pinafore and shook a perpetual duster.
Although she was staggered to realise that the nonentity was actually
claiming individuality, she could not keep off her special subject.

"What do you think of Stephen?" she asked.

"I like him," replied Helen, "but I think he's a rotter. He shouldn't
have left us in the jam."

"Left us?" echoed Simone, springing up from her reclining posture

"Yes, he's gone for good. Didn't you know?"

Helen was rather startled by the effect of her news on Simone. She sat,
as though stunned, her fingers pressed tightly over her lips.

"Where did he go?" she asked in a low voice.

Helen determined to make a thorough job of Simone's disillusionment.

"To the _Bull_," she replied.

"To that woman, you mean."

"If you mean the landlord's daughter," Helen said, "he, was talking
about her in the kitchen. He said he couldn't go away without wishing
her 'Goodbye.'"

The next second, she realised her blunder, as Simone burst into a storm
of tears.

"He's gone," she cried. "That woman has him. I want him so. You don't
understand. It's burning me up. I must do something."

"Oh, don't yearn over him," entreated Helen. "He's not worth it. You're
only making yourself cheap."

"Shut up. And get out of my room."

"I don't want to be where I'm not wanted," Helen said stoutly. "But I've
orders not to leave you."

Her speech roused Simone to white fury.

"So that's it?" she cried. "You were sent to spy on me? That was clever
of them. Oh, thank them from me. But why didn't I think of it for
myself?"

"What do you mean?" asked Helen nervously.

"You'll see. Oh, you'll see."

Helen watched in silent dismay, as Simone whirled around the room,
snatching at garments and dressing in frantic haste. She realised that
the situation had passed from her control. She could no more arrest the
inevitable catastrophe than subdue a runaway engine.

She cried out in protest, however, as Simone dragged on her fur coat.

"Where are you going?" she demanded.

"Out of this house. I won't stay to be watched and insulted." Simone
snatched up a handful of jewellery, thrust it inside her bag, and turned
to Helen. "I'm going to my lover. Tell the Professor I shan't be back
tonight."

"No, you shan't go," declared Helen, trying to grip Simone's wrists. "He
doesn't want you."

The struggle was short and desperate, but Simone was the stronger,
besides being entirely reckless. Careless of consequences, she pushed
Helen away with such force that the girl was thrown to the floor.

Although Helen was not hurt, she wasted a little time in assuring
herself that such was actually the case. While she was rubbing her
aching head, she heard the click of a key in the lock, and realised that
she was a prisoner.



CHAPTER XVIII. THE DEFENCE WEAKENS



The sound brought Helen to her feet and sent her rushing to the door,
even while she knew that she was too late. She tugged at the handle and
battered on the panels, to relieve her feelings, rather than with any
hope of release.

It was a humiliating situation, and indignation was her strongest
emotion. She had been thrown about, as though she were a dummy in a
film. Worst of all, she had failed again in a position of trust. The
thought quickened her sense of responsibility and made her rack her
brain for some method of arousing the household--only to be forced back
on the hopeless expedient of ringing the bell.

Even as she pressed the button, she knew that no one would come. The
bell rang down in the basement-hall, where Mrs. Oates would only hear it
as a soothing accompaniment to her snores. Were she roused, she would
ignore it, on principle.

Bells were none of her business. She did so much during her
working-hours, that she was forced, in self-defence, to guard her
precious leisure. Helen remembered how she would point, either to her
husband or the girl, and sing "The bells of Hell go ting-a-ling-a-ling,
for you, but not for me," whenever she noticed an unanswered tinkle.

It was soon obvious that she did not intend to relax her rule on this
occasion. Helen stopped prodding the button, and resigned herself to an
indefinite wait.

At first, she had plenty of occupation, for she was able to satisfy her
curiosity over Simone's wardrobe and toilet-aids; but she could not
bring her usual interest to her investigations. Every silk stocking and
pot of rouge reminded her of Simone. She was out in the storm--lashed on
by a spluttering match of desire, which she had magnified to a torch of
passion.

Helen reconstructed her--a luxury-product, spoiled neurotic and useless
from her cradle, every wish had been gratified and every whim
forestalled. She had been shielded under a glass-case, lest life should
blow too roughly upon her.

And, even then, the horror might be closing over her; the glass
shattered, leaving her defenceless, to face reality.

Instead of protecting arms, she would see hands stretched out, in
menace. She would cry for help, and--for the first time in her life--she
would cry in vain.

That was the vision which kept flashing across Helen's mind, as she
thought of Simone's peril. Although she had done her best, she still
felt a sense of guilt. In order to prepare her story for the defence,
she began to reconstruct the incident.

As she did so, she was again visited by a disquieting memory. This time,
it was an auditory illusion. She was positive that she had heard the key
click in the lock at the same time as she listened to the sound of
Simone's frantic flight down the stairs.

"Someone else locked me in," she whispered. "Who? And why?"

She could only conjecture that Nurse Barker had been on the landing,
probably attracted up there by the noise of the scuffle. If she had
grasped the situation, her jealousy might have urged her to imprison
Helen, in order to stamp her as an incompetent.

Suddenly Helen received a belated inspiration. Mrs. Oates had told her
that all the doors in the Summit were fitted with the same lock. In that
case, Newton's dressing-room key should fit the bedroom keyhole.

She had some difficulty in wrenching it out, for it was rusted from
desuetude. From her recent investigations, she knew where to find
Newton's hair-oil; but before she began her lubrications, she decided to
match it with the lock.

As she grasped the handle of the bedroom door, it slipped round in her
fingers, and swung open. Her lips, too, fell apart, as she stared out at
the deserted landing.

"Well," she gasped.

Faced with the prospect of a violent drop in favour, she ran downstairs,
to raise the alarm. While she had established the fact that she was the
victim of a practical joke--or trick--it was impossible to prove it to
her employers. She decided that it would be wiser to accept any blame,
and remain silent, only to find that no explanation was required. When
she blurted out the news of Simone's flight, the Warren family was
united in a solid front, to save the situation.

As the Professor, Miss Warren and Newton looked at each other, the
likeness between them, became plain. The muscles of their thin overbred
faces worked convulsively as the steel jaws of a trap, betraying the
violence of their emotion, and the force of their self-control.

Although Newton's high voice broke in an occasional squeak, his manner
remained as temperate as though the subject of discussion was the
weather.

"You say, Miss Capel, that she went to the _Bull_, to join Rice," asked
the Professor.

"Yes," said Helen, avoiding looking at Newton. "I fought with her,
but--"

"Yes, yes. The question is--who will go after her, Newton. You or I?"

"I'm going," replied Newton.

"No, darling," urged Miss Warren. "You're the younger man. Your father
will have more authority. Your place is here."

"You're in no danger," Newton told her. "But she's running a horrible
risk."

The Professor laid his hand on his son's shoulder, to steady him, and
Helen noticed that his thin knotted fingers trembled slightly.

"I understand your feelings, Newton," he said. "But I think the chances
are against your maniac being outside in this storm. If he's not back in
his home, he will be sheltering in some barn. I am sure Simone will
reach the _Bull_ safely."

"What a happy prospect." Newton bit his lip. "All the more reason for
her husband to be there."

"Perhaps you're right. But before you go we'd better discuss our line of
procedure. We want to avoid a scandal"

"I don't want to divorce Simone." Newton's voice cracked, "I only want
to get her away from that--from Rice."

"Personally, I think she is in no danger from Rice," remarked the
Professor. "He is very definitely not an amatory type."

"He locked that poor girl in his room at Oxford," declared Newton
heatedly.

"You forget, Newton, that I've been an undergraduate in my time. Such
episodes can be staged. I've always kept an open mind on that charge.
Wash out Rice. The question is--how to account for Simone running
through the rain, to a small public-house?"

"A brain-storm, caused by nerves," suggested Miss Warren. "The murder
would explain her condition."

The Professor nodded approval.

"I'm afraid you'll both have to put up at the _Bull_, for the night," he
said. "They have no conveyance, and Simone could not return through the
storm."

"Couldn't you come back, Newton, when you've explained everything and
made all arrangements for Simone?" asked Miss Warren.

Newton laughed as he thoughtfully buttoned his water proof.

"Excellent. I could leave her in Rice's care. Don't worry, Aunt. Expect
us back tomorrow morning."

Helen was assailed by a fresh pang of loneliness when the chain was
re-fastened, after the exodus. As Newton went out of the house--his head
thrust forward as though he were butting the storm--the partially-opened
door revealed a section of chaos, interlaced with veins of slanting
rain, spinning round in the shaft of electric-light.

After that glimpse of a watery confusion, the atmosphere of the hall
appeared stagnant, and clogged with femininity. All the virility had
been drained out of it with the departure of the men. It was true that
the Professor remained, but he seemed exhausted by the excessive burden
of responsibility.

"Mr. Rice will have to come back tomorrow to fetch his dog," said Miss
Warren.

Helen's face brightened.

"Shall we free it, to roam the house?"

Miss Warren's face betrayed indecision. "I fear and dislike all dogs,"
she said. "Still--the Creature might be a protection."

"I'm used to dogs," Helen told her. "May I feed him and then bring him
down with me?"

"It has been fed, by Mrs. Oates, before I took it out to the garage."
Miss Warren's gaze challenged her brother. "Perhaps, Sebastian, you will
bring it in?"

Helen pricked up her ears as the secret of the strange noises upon the
back-stairs was explained. Mrs. Oates' reticence was but another proof
of her loyalty to her employers.

The Professor was looking at his sister, a faint smile touching his
lips.

"Typical, my dear Blanche," he murmured. "Is the door of the garage
unlocked?"

"Locked. I have the key upstairs."

As they waited for Miss Warren's return, Helen tried to conquer her
dread of the Professor. Like a kitten, which pats a suspicious object,
and then springs sideways, she could not resist an attempt to explore
his mind.

"I admire Miss Warren's strength of character," she said. "Of course,
she can't help being afraid of dogs." She hastened to bring out the
classic excuse of analogy. "Lord Roberts was frightened of cats."

"But my sister is not afraid in your sense of the word," explained the
Professor. "That is to say, she is not afraid of being bitten or worried
by a dog. But she realises the danger of bacteriological infection which
lurks in the parasites of animals."

Helen did her best to reciprocate his intelligence.

"I know," Helen said. "There are millions of germs everywhere. Enough to
kill all the people in the world. But--I understood that there were good
germs to fight the bad germs."

The Professor's faint smile did not conceal his scorn.

"Even as your good angels strive with devils?" he enquired. "There may
be some combat, but, in the Animal Kingdom, the Ultimate Good does not
prevail, as in your fairy-tale Creed."

Although she felt choked with nervousness, Helen continued the argument.

"If the destructive germs were the more powerful," she said, "we should
all of us be dead."

"We soon shall be dead. Longevity is only comparative, while many die
young. Think of infant mortality, which is Nature's method of dealing
with surplus population. Unfortunately, medical science has interfered
with her good intentions, to a certain extent. Still, death wins."

Helen felt too overawed by the Sardonic gleam in the scientist's eye, to
dare to argue further. She knew herself outclassed, even while her heart
protested against his dreary materialistic outlook.

"What is Miss Warren's special subject?" she asked timidly.

"She ranges. Her plane of vision is, consequently, different from your
own. You see with eyes, but she sees through a microscope. Terrors,
which are lost to you, are revealed to her."

Helen rather liked the way the Professor was trying to gloss over his
sister's imperfections. She believed that, even as shadows on the sea
betray the presence of rocks, so trifles indicate character.

Whatever his theological disbelief, the Professor was staunch.

"How interesting," she said politely.

"My sister is of too sensitised nature to mix with the outside world,"
went on the Professor, "yet her nerve is of iron. She did valuable work,
during the War, at the Front, which took daily toll of her reserves. Yet
she never showed any sign of strain, and emerged with a fine record.
That is one of the reasons why she insists on a teetotal household--so
great is her horror of any kind of bestiality."

"I think that was fine," said Helen.

"It was. Especially, as you have already remarked, she suffers from a
deficient pituitary gland."

Helen did not understand his allusion, so she gazed with new respect at
Miss Warren, when she came down the staircase. In silence she handed her
brother a key, and then walked into the library.

"Bolt the door after me, please," said the Professor, "and remain here
to let me in again."

It was dreary waiting in the hall which was now so empty and silent. No
sound of youthful voices, or strains of wireless floated from the
drawing-room.

"Thank goodness, I'll soon have the dog," Helen thought.

Even that consolation was denied her. When--a little Later--heralded by
his knock, the Professor was blown inside the lobby, he was alone.

"Rice has made good his threat," he told her. "I found the padlock on
the garage door forced and the dog gone."

Stripping off his dripping coat, he walked into his study.

Feeling doubly forlorn, Helen ventured to invade Mrs. Oates' privacy.
She knocked several times on the kitchen door without attracting any
attention, although the light was shining through the frosted-glass
panels.

She was on the point of turning away when she was startled by an
unfamiliar thick voice.

"Come in, my dear."

In spite of the genial invitation, Helen entered the kitchen with a
sinking heart--not knowing what she feared.

Mrs. Oates sat slumped back in her chair, like a sack of potatoes, a
stupid smile on her red face.

In spite of her inexperience, Helen guessed that the ultimate disaster
had befallen her. Her second guard had failed her. Mrs. Oates was drunk.



CHAPTER XIX. ONE OVER THE EIGHT



As Helen looked at Mrs. Oates, she felt in the grip of a bad dream.
Everything had changed in the course of a few hours. It was impossible
to believe that the kitchen was the same cheery place, where she had
drunk her tea.

It was not only comfortless and untidy, but actually darker, for no
leaping fire helped to illuminate it. Crumbs and egg-shells were strewn
on the bare table. Even the ginger cat had deserted his rug for the
peace of the empty drawing-room.

But the change in Mrs. Oates was the worst feature of the
transformation. An ugly woman at her best, she had lost the redeeming
quality of her expression. The loyalty had been soaked from her eyes and
the characteristic lines of her face had melted together in an idiotic
grin. When Helen gave her the latest bulletin of news, she received it
with such indifference that the girl wondered whether she had actually
grasped the fact of the wholesale desertion.

"Women can't get drunk decently," she thought.

It struck her that, in this special accomplishment, men remained
supreme. Women equalled their records in other fields, but while a man,
in his cups, could be amusing--or even brilliant--a drunken woman only
relapsed into bestiality.

Yet, although she was disgusted by Mrs. Oates' gross red face, she
realised that she was only partially intoxicated. Since the catastrophe
was not complete, it might be possible to appeal to her sense of trust,
and to pull her round again.

"Have you been drinking my health?" she asked.

Mrs. Oates registered exaggerated innocence.

"Funny, ain't you? Beer-money I get--I'll allow you that. But never a
drop of tiddley."

"Odd," sniffed Helen. "I thought I could smell brandy."

"Must be that nurse, spilling her breath. She's been poking down here."

Helen decided to try guile.

"Bad luck," she sighed. "I could do with a spot myself. Just to buck me
up, after all the upset."

She watched the conflict in Mrs. Oates' inflamed face, as native
kindliness struggled with greed and caution. In the end, generosity
prevailed.

"And so you shall, you poor little squirt," she declared. Ducking down
her head, she dived under her skirt, and drew out a bottle of brandy,
which she placed triumphantly on the table.

"Help yourself," she said hospitably. "Plenty more where that comes
from."

"Where did you find it?" asked Helen.

"In the cellar, when the master went to look at the thermommomm--"

As Mrs. Oates continued to wrestle with the word, with a flicker of her
old bulldog tenacity, Helen stretched out her hand for the bottle.

"You've drunk nearly half already," she said. "Hadn't you better save
some for tomorrow?"

"No," declared Mrs. Oates solemnly. "I can't taste nips. I must have
swallows. I always finish a bottle."

"But you'll get drunk, and then Miss Warren will sack you."

"No, she won't. I done this before. The master only says she must put
temptation out of my way and not give me another chance."

Helen listened with the dismay of a card-player who has mistaken a small
pip for a trump. A valuable trick--fear of the consequences--was lost to
her.

It was obvious that Mrs. Oates was callous with regard to the future.
The Warren family balanced an occasional lapse against the value of her
services.

"Still, put a little by for a rainy day," she urged, as Mrs. Oates'
fingers closed around the bottle.

"For Oates to find? Not blooming likely. He'll know I've had one over
the eight, and he's always out to block me. No. I'm going to hide it in
the only safe place."

"What rotten luck your husband had to go off," wailed Helen tactlessly.
"Why should it happen tonight, of all nights?"

Mrs. Oates began to laugh shrilly.

"I done that," she crowed. "I took up the pudding to the bedroom when I
knew the nurse was busy with her ladyship, washing down the decks. I
just gave the cap of the cylinder a twist as I was setting down the
plate."

"What made you think of it?" gasped Helen.

"You. You said it was her life. But if it hadn't worked I'd have thought
up some other way to get rid of Oates."

The nightmare oppression increased as Helen sat opposite Mrs. Oates and
watched her drain her glass. There seemed to be a conspiracy against
her; yet when she traced back effect to cause, she could find no
evidence of human malice.

There was nothing extraordinary in the fact that Mrs. Oates should have
a failing, and it was natural that her husband should try to check her;
it therefore followed also naturally--that she should sharpen her wits
to get him out of her way.

The same logic characterised the events which had been responsible for
the clearance of the young people. Stephen Rice was devoted to his dog
and resented its banishment, while Simone had behaved in the normal
manner of a spoiled neurotic girl, whose desires had been thwarted. The
Professor, too, could not have done otherwise, when he authorised Newton
to follow his wife.

Of course, there had been unlucky trifles which had been the levers
which set the machinery in motion; but the responsibility for them was
divided equally among the members of the household.

It was unfortunate that Stephen should have brought home a dog, in the
first place, and doubly unfortunate when it clashed with Miss Warren's
prejudice against all animals. The Professor's lapse was also
lamentable, although he could hardly credit Mrs. Oates with the audacity
of committing a theft under his nose.

Helen had to admit that she, too, had lent a hand in weaving this
extraordinary tissue of consequences. She had influenced Dr. Parry to
exaggerate the gravity of Lady Warren's condition, while her unlucky
remark about the oxygen had been the origin of Mrs. Oates' brain-wave.

Yet, even as she marshalled her arguments, she grew afraid. Something
was advancing towards her--some vast slow movement of affairs, which she
was powerless to deflect from its course.

Blind chance alone could not be responsible for this string of apparent
accidents. Natural things were happening--but with unnatural complicity.
The process was altogether too smooth and too regular; they timed too
perfectly, as though some brain were directing their operations.

The sight of Mrs. Oates slowly dissolving from a shrewd woman into a
sot, stung Helen to desperate action.

"Give me that," she cried, seizing the bottle. "You ought to be ashamed
of yourself."

She realised her mistake when Mrs. Oates turned on her in a fury.

"Lay off that," she shouted.

Helen tried to turn her action into a joke as she dodged around the
kitchen, pursued by Mrs. Oates.

"Don't be so silly," she urged, still hugging the bottle. "Try and pull
yourself together." Red-eyed and panting, Mrs. Oates pent her into a
corner, snatched the bottle from her, and then slapped her cheek.

As the girl reeled back under the force of the blow, Mrs. Oates gripped
her shoulders and practically hurled her out of the kitchen.

"Good riddance to bad rubbish" she muttered as she slammed the door.
"You keep out of here."

Helen was glad to escape, for she realised the need to enlist fresh
help. Too timid to appeal to the Professor, she went into the library.
Miss Warren, who was hunched together, poring over a book, did not
welcome the interruption.

"I hope, Miss Capel, you've not disturbed me for a trifle," she said.

"No," Helen told her, "it's important. Mrs. Oates is drunk."

Miss Warren clicked with disgust, and then glanced at the clock.

"There's nothing to worry about," she said calmly. "She will sleep it
off tonight. Tomorrow she will do her works as usual."

"But she had not quite passed out," persisted Helen. "If you were to
speak to her now you might stop her."

"I am certainly not going to argue with a semi-intoxicated woman," said
Miss Warren. "And my brother's work is far too important to be
interrupted. If you are wise, you will not interfere. This has happened
before."

Miss Warren took up her book again, to indicate that the interview was
over.

Feeling utterly miserable, Helen wandered into the hall. At the sight of
the telephone, however, her courage revived. It reminded her that while
she had been feeling lonely as though marooned on a desert island, the
Summit was still linked with civilisation.

"I'll ring up the _Bull_," she decided. "We ought to find out if Simone
is safe. And then I'll ring up Dr. Parry."

She was conscious of sharp suspense as she took the receiver from the
hook. In this gale telephone poles must be crashing down all over the
country. So many disasters had piled themselves up, that she quite
expected to find that she was cut off.

To her joy, however, she heard the buzz of connection, and an operator's
voice at the Exchange enquiring the number. After a short interval,
another voice, speaking with a strong Welsh accent, informed her that he
was Mr. Williams, landlord of the _Bull_.

In answer to her enquiries he told her that Mr. and Mrs. Newton Warren
had arrived at the Inn, and were staying the night. He added that Mr.
Rice had left, with his dog, immediately after their arrival, presumably
to make room for the lady.

"Where did he go?" asked Helen.

"To the Parsonage. He said he knew Parson would put him up, seeing as
he's partial to dogs."

Feeling that she had family news to offer as her excuse, if she were
surprised at the telephone, Helen looked up Dr. Parry's number in the
directory. Presently she heard his voice at the other end of the wire.
It sounded tired, and not exactly enthusiastic.

"Don't tell me the old lady has thrown an attack. Have a heart. I'm only
just started on my meal."

"I want some advice," Helen told him. "There's no one else to ask but
you."

But at the end of her story she had not succeeded in convincing even
herself of the gravity of the position. Everything sounded petty and
stressed; and she was sure that Dr. Parry shared her view.

"Bit of a landslide," he said, "but there's nothing you can do. Don't
tackle Mrs. Oates again."

"Bit I do want to get her sober," pleaded Helen. "It's so lonely with no
one."

"Are you afraid?"

"N--no," replied Helen.

"Because, if you re, I'll come over at once."

As he expected, the offer braced Helen to a refusal. He was hungry, wet,
and dog-tired; although he was susceptible, at that moment a fire and
his pipe appealed to him more than the brightest eyes.

"I know that watch-tower of a house can't be too cheerful in a gale," he
said. "But say your prayers and it won't come down. Of course, you've
had a nasty shock, this evening, and you naturally feel lonely with
those people walking out on you. Still, there's quite a respectable
number left. Lock up, and you've nothing to fear."

"Yes," agreed Helen, starting at a violent crash outside one of the
shuttered windows.

"If you went to bed now, and locked your door, could you sleep in this
gale?" asked Dr. Parry.

"I don't think so. My room's high up, and it's rocking like a cradle."

"Then keep up the fire in your sitting-room, and make up a shakedown
there. You'll hardly hear the storm. Before you know it, it'll be
tomorrow morning."

"And things look so different in the morning," said Helen.

It was easy to be brave with Dr. Parry's cheerful voice ringing in her
ears.

"Remember this," he said. "If you feel afraid, ring me up and I'll come
over."

With the promise to cheer her, Helen rang off. But as she looked around
the hall her confidence died. The house seemed to sway with he gale, and
the night to be full of sounds. A great voice roared down the chimney,
until she felt she was on the verge of catching actual words. Feeling
that any reception was better than loneliness, Helen went down to the
kitchen again. To her relief, Mrs. Oates beamed a welcome. Her colour
had grown a trifle more congested, while the brandy in the bottle had
sunk.

"I mustn't irritate her," thought Helen, as she sat down and patted
Mrs. Oates familiarly on the knee.

"We're friends, old thing," she said. "Aren't we?"

"Yes," nodded Mrs. Oates. "Oates said 'Look after little Miss.' Them
were his last words, before he was called away. Look after little Miss."

"Oh, don't talk as if he was dead," cried Helen.

Stroking Mrs. Oates' hand the while, she began to talk persuasively.

"But how can you look after me if you're drunk?"

"I'm not drunk," objected Mrs. Oates. "I can toe the line. And I can
cosh anyone as dared to lay a finger on little Miss,"

Rising, with only the slightest stagger, she walked across the room,
sparring at shadow adversaries with such vigour that Helen felt
comforted.

"If I can only keep her like this," she thought, "she's as good as any
man,"

Mrs. Oates stopped, blowing like a porpoise, to receive Helen's
applause.

"I've been setting here," she said, "thinking. And thinking. I'm
worrying about that nurse. Why does she speak with her mouth all choked
up with bread-crumbs? What's the answer to that?"

"I don't know," replied Helen.

"I do," Mrs. Oates told her. "She's putting on a voice. Depend on it
she's got another one of her own, same as the old lady upstairs. And
she's putting on a walk. She's reminding herself not to tramp as if she
was squashing beetles. Now, what do you make of that?"

"What do you?" asked Helen uncomfortably.

"Ah. May be she's not a woman--same as you and me. Maybe, he--"

As Mrs. Oates broke off to stare, Helen turned and saw Nurse Barker
standing at the open door.



CHAPTER XX. A LADY'S TOILET



Helen shrank back aghast, before Nurse Barker's stare. She had never
before seen hatred--unmasked and relentless--glaring from human eyes.

It was only too obvious that Mrs. Oates' words had been overheard; yet
Helen made a feeble attempt to explain them away.

"We were just talking of Lady Warren," she said. "Isn't she an
extraordinary woman?"

Nurse Barker brushed aside the subterfuge. In ominous silence she
stalked over to the kitchen range and seized the kettle.

"No hot water," she said.

"I'm so sorry, but the fire's gone out." Helen apologised for Mrs. Oates.
"If you can wait a few minutes, I'll boil up some on my spirit
stove."

"I need no help," said Nurse Barker. "I can do my own jobs. And finish
them."

The words were harmless, but she infused into them a hint of grim and
settled purpose. With the same ominous significance, she looked first at
the bottle on the table, and then at Mrs. Oates, who sagged in her
easy-chair, like a sack of meal.

"Brandy," she remarked. "In a teetotal house."

Instantly Mrs. Oates raised her glass defiantly.

"Good health, Nurse," she said thickly. "May all your chickens come home
to roost."

Nurse Barker gave a short laugh.

"I see," she said. "I shall soon have you on my hands. Well, I shall
know how to deal with you,"

Before Mrs. Oates could retaliate, she had gone from the room.

"Well," gasped Mrs. Oates, sniffing vigorously, "wot a nasty smell.
She'd better try no tricks on me, nor call me out of my name, or I'll
give her a thick ear. I won't be bullied by that."

"That'?" echoed Helen.

"Well, who's to say if it's a woman, or a man?"

Again Helen was gripped with the nightmare horror of the situation, as
Mrs. Oates sunk her voice to a hoarse whisper. She had drained her glass
again, in greedy gulps. It was only too clear that her guardian was
slipping away from her, leaving her to solve the enigma of the nurse.

It was true that she had still the moral support of the Professor and
his sister; but they were too negligible to help. They seemed to retreat
always to their distant horizons--aloof and invulnerable as shadows.

As a child, she had the reputation of never crying; but at this crisis
she suddenly broke down.

"Oh, don't," she cried piteously. "I can't stand much more."

As she began to cry, Mrs. Oates looked at her with puzzled eyes.

"What's the matter, dearie?" she asked.

"I'm terrified," confessed Helen. "You keep on drinking. Soon, you'll be
a log, and then you'll be in her power. You're asking for it. I'll do my
best, of course--but she'd make three of me, and leave scrapings. And
upstairs they won't believe a word I say, until it's too late."

Helen spoke wildly, but her exaggeration had the desired effect of
sobering Mrs. Oates. In her turn she daubed lurid colours on her picture
of the future.

"It's you she's after," she said. "She wants to do me in, to get at you.
Well, we'll show her."

Gulping with emotion, she pushed the bottle of brandy across the table.

"Put it somewhere where I can't reach it."

Helen took a rapid survey of the kitchen, while Mrs. Oates watched her
with painful interest. She had repented her noble resolution before the
girl started to climb up on to the tall dresser. She had to pull herself
up to the second shelf, before she was able to hoist the bottle on to
the top ledge: but directly it was out of Mrs. Oates' reach, she felt a
sudden glow of confidence.

Scrambling from her perilous perch, she began to make a bargain.

"You've been wonderful," she said. "If only you'll go on playing the
game, I promise you shall finish that bottle, tomorrow evening, in my
sitting-room. I'll keep Oates out, and I'll stand any racket."

"Swear," said Mrs. Oates.

Helen went through the ritual of crossing her throat.

"Now, I'm going to make some strong coffee, to pull you round," she
said.

"Cawfee," groaned Mrs. Oates. "If ever you get a man who lifts his
elbow, Heaven help the poor bloke."

Helen actually whistled when she was in her sitting room, for lighting
the spirit-stove revived memories of Dr. Parry. Since he had gone she
had experienced such a whirl of emotions that she had no time to think
of him. But as she passed the episode in retrospect it glowed with the
dawn of happiness.

She remembered his eyes when he prophesied her marriage, and his recent
promise to come to her aid if she were in need of him. At that moment
she re-lived her previous experience, when she had stood looking at the
refuge of the Summit, across the division of a dark spread of country.

She felt that, now, she was gazing down the length of a pitchy tunnel,
to a golden glory, which shone at its end. But, between her and the dawn
of a new day coiled the black serpent of the night.

The water boiled over and she made the coffee, filling a cup with strong
dark fluid, which she carried to Mrs. Oates.

"Here you are," she said, "Black as night and hot as hell."

"Hell," repeated Mrs. Oates, as she held her nose and swallowed it in a
draught.

"Mrs. Oates," asked Helen suddenly, "is Dr. Parry engaged?"

"Not yet, but may be soon," replied Mrs. Oates. "I'm always asking him
when he's going to get married and he always says he is waiting for a
young lady as he can pick up and pitch over the moon."

Although Mrs. Oates' remark was under suspicion of being inspired by her
audience, Helen smiled, and felt she must spread a little of her own
happiness.

"I'll take some coffee up to the nurse," she said. "I'm afraid we hurt
her feelings just now."

When she reached the blue room, she knocked several times, but Nurse
Barker did not appear.

After a slight hesitation, Helen cautiously opened the door an inch, and
peeped into the room.

It was in semi-darkness, for the electric light had been switched off;
only a faint bluish light from a shaded lamp, and the fitful glow from
the fire illumined the gloom. Stealing over the thick carpet, she could
make out the outline of Lady Warren's fleecy jacket between the
bed-hangings of ultramarine. Apparently the old lady was asleep, for her
snores whined up and down the scale.

Afraid of waking her, Helen could not warn Nurse Barker of her approach.
The light shining through the partially-opened door of the dressing
room, told her that the nurse was inside.

Creeping closer, Helen took her unawares. She was apparently busy with
her toilet, for she stood before the glass intently examining her
reflection. As she rubbed a finger over her chin, Helen caught the gleam
of some small glittering object in her doubled-up fist.

She started violently as Helen scraped on the panel of the door, and
looked at the girl suspiciously.

"Well," she said bitterly. "This is the one place where I thought I
might expect some privacy."

"Yes, the arrangements are abominable," agreed Helen. "I thought you
might like some coffee."

"Thanks."

Nurse Barker began to sip with studied refinement, which reminded Helen
of a stage performance she had witnessed.

"But the man I saw gave a more natural female-impersonation," she
thought. She was so fascinated that she tried to find some excuse for
lingering.

"As you saw, Mrs. Oates has been drinking," she said. "Can you tell me
of anything that will put her right?"

"Try an egg in Worcester sauce, and a hair of the dog that bit her,"
advised Nurse Barker. "What time do you go to bed?"

"About ten. But I'm not going to bed tonight."

"Why?"

"Well, someone must sit up to let Oates in."

Suddenly Nurse Barker pounced on the girl.

"So you've forgotten the Professor's order already? He said you were to
admit no one."

Helen looked the picture of guilt as she remembered Dr. Parry's promise.
If he came, she did not intend to keep him outside.

"I did forget," she confessed. "Please don't tell the Professor or Miss
Warren."

"I'll make no promises," declared Nurse Barker. "If you are not watched
constantly, you will imperil the safety of everyone under this roof.
It's bad enough having you here, at all--to draw him on us. For he's
after you."

At the reminder, Helen felt a tightening of her scalp.

"Why do you keep on trying to frighten me?" she asked.

"Because you forget." Nurse Barker laid down her empty cup and
approached Helen. "There's another thing I've been saving up to tell
you," she added. "I'm not satisfied about that Welsh doctor."

"Dr. Parry?" asked Helen incredulously.

"Yes, he's a queer, excitable type--unbalanced and neurotic. He might be
a homicidal maniac."

"Oh, don't be a fool," Helen said.

"You know nothing about him," went on Nurse Barker. "These crimes are
committed by some man who inspires the confidence of his victims, and
who can move quickly from place to place. Well, think of the way he
rushes all over the country on his motor-bike--here, one minute--a mile
away, the next. And everyone trusts the doctor."

"Of course they do," declared Helen hotly. "I do, for one. I'd trust Dr.
Parry with my life. He's a darling. He's promised to come to the Summit,
in this awful storm, if I feel nervous."

Nurse Barker took a cigarette from her case and stuck It--unlighted--in
the corner of her mouth.

"You needn't trouble to send for him," she sneered. "He may come without
waiting for an invitation."

Helen turned towards the door.

"I won't disturb you any longer," she said. "Besides--I think you're
goofy."

Nurse Barker gripped her arm.

"You're afraid of me," she said.

"I'm not."

"What do you think of me?"

"I think you are very reliant--and clever."

"A fool?"

"Oh, anything but that."

"Then," said Nurse Barker, "perhaps you will listen to me...unless you
are a fool yourself. The man who commits these crimes is normal when the
fit has passed. So you'll have no warning: You may meet him tonight. If
you do, he'll be the biggest surprise of your life. And the last."

As she listened Helen's heart gave a sharp double-knock, and her head
swam, while Nurse Barker appeared to shoot up until she towered above
her like a white pillar. She felt that she was losing her grip upon
actuality. Everything was changing before her eyes in a hideous
transformation. She did not know whom to trust--what to believe. In the
confusion, friends masqueraded as enemies--humanity lost the common
touch.

What really worried her was the fact that Dr. Parry had spoken to her in
the same horrible language. She, had a vision of his face changing
before her gaze--his smile stiffening to a grimace--the red touch of
murder glowing behind his eyes.

The mist cleared from her vision as Nurse Barker lit a cigarette. All
her unwholesome dream was burned away, like withered membrane, as one
fear was killed by another. For the flame which reddened Nurse Barker's
face revealed the shaven lip of a man.



CHAPTER XXI. CLEARING THE WAY



The shock had the effect of steadying Helen's nerves. She had something
definite to fight, instead of groping in a shifting horror of a
nightmare. She had a problem for her brain to bite on, before she could
decide on any course of action. Slipping through the darkened blue room,
she went down to the hall.

Although the shaking of its one window, set high in the wall, reminded
her of a storm at sea, it was less exposed than the sitting-rooms. It
was also a point of vantage, where she could watch the staircase and the
rest of the house. Moreover, she had the satisfaction of knowing that
both the Professor and Miss Warren were within call.

Sitting on the lowest stair--her chin cupped in her hands--she took
stock of the situation. To begin with, she knew that Nurse Barker was
not the maniac, since her alibi, at the time of the murder, was
established. At the worst, she was an impostor, who was in league with
the criminal.

In that case, she must be kept under observation until they had
sufficient evidence to ring up the police. Helen felt that four
able-bodied persons should be able to cope with her--or him. The real
difficulty would be to convince the Warrens.

It was Mrs. Oates who had started the hare of Nurse Barker's doubtful
sex. Probably the idea was of alcoholic birth, for Helen was more
inclined to regard her as a harsh jealous woman, handicapped by Nature
with an unfortunate appearance, The fact that she shaved could be
discounted, as a downy lip was not an uncommon feminine trait.

On the other hand, if Mrs. Oates' suspicion was founded on fact, it
opened up a range of ugly possibilities. It established a definite plot,
for the genuine nurse must have been got out of the way. If the maniac
had marked down herself as his next victim, he would not be stopped, by
any obstacle, from reaching his objective.

His choice of herself was as inexplicable as the history of his crimes.
With scores of girls in the town on whom to wreak his mania, he had
undertaken a perilous climb in order to reach the governess' bedroom.
But, while in the cases of the countryside murders, he might have
attacked the girls, when the itch for slaughter had suddenly awakened,
this was different, It was the more horrible, because it was a patient,
cold-blooded pursuit. She imagined him making enquiries, finding out her
address, tracking her down.

What appalled her most was the way in which his path was being smoothed.
No one could have foreseen such a chapter of accidents. Although he
could not have planned them, they could not be coincidence, since each
event had happened in its logical sequence.

"Why should he pick on me? I'm nobody. I don't look like a film star."

As she cast the net of her thoughts over the past, she captured a
memory. On her way to the Summit she had remained at the railway station
for about an hour, while she waited for Oates' arrival with the ancient
car. As her head ached from her journey down from London she took off
her hat.

The bench on which she sat was under a lamp, which shone down on her
bright mane of hair--the colour of pale flame. She remembered that a man
had turned to stare at her, but his cap was pulled down over his eyes,
so that she could not see his face.

"It was my hair," she thought. "But I'm an idiot. It's only Nurse
Barker's idea. He's not after me. She's trying to frighten me."

It all boiled down to the old question--who was Nurse Barker? Closing
her eyes, she rocked to and fro. It was long past her bed time, and she
had passed through a strenuous day. Worn out with strain, she felt
herself growing drowsy. She began to glide over the surface of a
tranquil river, shallow and crystal clear.

Suddenly it ended in a drop over a bottomless hole. Her heart gave a
leap, and she opened her eyes with a violent start. To her surprise she
was not alone. While she dozed the Professor had come out of his study,
and was bending over her.

"Sleeping on the stairs, Miss Capel?" he asked: "Why don't you go to
bed?"

His formal voice and appearance restored her confidence.

Crimes don't happen in well-conducted houses, where gentlemen dress for
dinner.

Very unwise, he remarked, when she confided her proposed vigil. He
passed her, and went up the stairs, holding on to the rail for support.
She called after him.

"Professor, may I say something?"

He waited while she ran up to the landing.

"Mrs. Oates wants the inside dope about that new nurse," she said. I
mean--she wants to know if she really comes from the Home."

"Then why not find out?" enquired the Professor. "There is the
telephone."

In spite of his aloofness, the Professor did not affect Helen with the
hopeless feeling of fighting the air. She remembered that when she had
been stunned by the thunderclap of the murder, he, alone had remained
unshaken.

Stimulated with contact with him, she did not want to cut the wires.

"Are you going up to bed?" she asked boldly.

"Yes," he replied. "It is nearly eleven."

"Then, I hope you'll get some sleep. But, if something crops
up--something I can't cope with--may I knock you up?"

"Not unless it is urgent,"

Cheered by the grudging permission, Helen ran down to the hall, and
consulted the telephone directory. Her habit of listening to scraps of
conversation had yielded the address of the Nursing Home, which was
fortunate, since there appeared to be a good crop of them. Presently,
the Exchange put her through to the Secretary.

"Will you please tell me if Nurse Barker is at the Home?" asked Helen.

"No," replied the Secretary. "Who's speaking?"

"The Summit."

"But she's at the Summit."

"I know. Will you please describe her?"

There was silence, as though the Secretary wondered whether she was
talking to an idiot.

"I don't understand," she said. "She's tall and dark, and one of our
best nurses. Have you any complaint to make?"

"No. Has she a very refined voice?"

"Naturally. All our nurses are ladies,"

"Oh, yes. Did you see her get into the car from the Summit?"

"No," replied the Secretary, after a pause. "It was late, so she waited
in the hall. When she heard a hoot, she went outside, carrying her bag."

Helen rang off with the feeling, that, on the whole, the interview was
satisfactory.

"I'd better check up, now, on Mrs. Oates," she decided.

Mrs. Oates was sunken lower in her basket-chair. She looked the picture
of misery as she stared at the bottle of brandy on top of the dresser.
"You gave me the works," she said reproachfully. "You and your cawfee.
I've not even got merry."

"Tomorrow," promised Helen. "I've been ringing up the Nursing Home.
Nurse Barker seems an awful brute, but otherwise I think she's all
right."

Mrs. Oates would not give up her original idea.

"All wrong to me," she grunted. "I've a tin with a lid what 'as
tightened up. Oates can't shift it. I'll ask her to open it, and see if
she falls into my trap."

"It would only prove she had strong fingers," said Helen. "She need not
be a man. What's the time?" She glanced at the inaccurate clock. "Five
to eleven. That's near enough. When will your husband be back?"

Mrs. Oates worked out the sum on her fingers.

"Say, one and a half hours to go, and two to get back. The old car's
bound to take a rest up some of them hills. And Oates will play about,
doing his business. Say five hours, at the outside, and maybe sooner."

Helen felt a rush of new hope.

"He left about eight-thirty," she said. "So we've only another two
hours, or so, to wait. I shall sleep like a top, once I know he's back.
Will you bring your sheets down to the spare room, so that I shall know
you're on the other side of the wall?"

"I don't mind," promised Mrs. Oates. "It'll be safer there, than on top,
with all the chimbleys,"

Suddenly Helen groaned.

"I'd forgotten. The Professor said we were not to let your husband in."

"That's all right," said Mrs. Oates. "The master gave his orders for you
to obey. But he wasn't giving them to himself. Didn't he pack off Mr.
Newton after his missus? Of course, he means to let Oates in."

Helen was astonished by the woman's shrewdness.

"You mean it was a pose--to show he was master of the house?" she asked.
"If he was so keen to get the oxygen, he wouldn't let it sit in the
garage all night. Directly we hear a knock I'll rush up and tell the
Professor."

"Oates will be inside the door by then," prophesied Mrs. Oates. "D' you
think I'd let my old man wait outside on the mat, with welcome?"

Helen sprang to her feet, her face eager.

"I'll soon be back," she said. "I want to change into my dressing-gown.
Then we'll make tea and be comfortable."

When she was outside in the basement hall, she paused in indecision. It
was quicker to use the back way. But as she gazed up the dimly-lit
spiral of narrow stairs, she shrank back, feeling that nothing would
induce her to go up them.

There were too many twists on the way--too many corners. Anything--or
anyone--might be lurking around the next bend--waiting to spring out
upon her.

Although she knew her fear was absurd, she went up the front staircase.
On the first landing she paused, arrested by a glimpse of the
Professor's bedroom, through his partially opened door. He had not begun
to undress, but was sitting in a low chair before his fireless grate.

As she lingered, she started at the sound of a muffled cry from the blue
room. She waited for it to be repeated, but heard nothing.

"I wish I knew what to do," she thought.

There was something about the noise which caught her imagination--a
smothered note, as though a heavy hand were placed over someone's lips.

Presently she decided that she was the victim of her fancy. Lady Warren
had called out in a nightmare, or else the nurse was trying to check her
snores.

But as she climbed the next flight of stairs she discovered to her
dismay, that she dreaded reaching the second floor. All the bedrooms,
with the exception of her own, were now empty. There were too many
hiding-places for anyone who might have crept up the back-stairs, as she
mounted the front.

When she tried to open her door she thought, at first, that somebody was
inside, shutting her out, so strong was the pressure of the draught. But
as she snapped on the light, she saw only the rise and fall of the
carpet, like the well of the sea.

She looked around the loaded room, at the painted mirror, the
wall-packet to hold a duster, the photograph of Lady Warren the First,
the numerous tiny shelves of the toilet-table, each with its lace mat.

"I suppose that governess-girl's room looked very much like mine," she
thought.

There seemed to be some septic aura hanging around Nurse Barker which
had the property of arousing fear. She had stood for only a few minutes
outside the blue room, yet her serenity had fled. It was of no use
reminding herself that Oates was probably on his homeward journey; he
might be as near as the front gate, and still be too late.

Up on the second floor, the full force of the gale was evident. A crack
on the window made Helen look round nervously. It sounded as though
someone were forcing his way inside.

Although she knew that it was impossible, she crossed to the casement
and drew aside the curtain. Instantly, the black shape which had
terrified her before, swung across, apparently touching the glass.

It was an unpleasant illusion, as though the tree was animated by some
persistent purpose. Helen redrew the curtain and sprang to the middle of
the room, where she stared around her, in momentary panic. She felt that
she was on the point of being attacked--like the other girl. At any
moment, a window might burst open, or a curtain bulge.

Although she did not know it, somewhere on the floor below a door was
opened stealthily. A head looked around the landing--its eyes slanting
to right and left. Someone stole across to the stairs, leading up to the
second floor.

Suddenly Helen's glance fell upon the Cross which hung over her bed. In
spite of the derision with which it had been assailed during dinner, it
held actual virtue to heal her terror. She reminded herself that its
Power was too enduring to be a fable or a myth. It would not fail her,
in her need.

Without a thought of the ill-fated governess, she drew her green dress
over her head. Shaking it out, she braved the menace of the wardrobe. No
one was hiding behind the hanging garments.

She felt more comfortable when she had put on her short blue woollen
dressing-gown, and heel-less slippers, which made her appear smaller
than ever. Stealing noiselessly down the stairs, she stopped, to listen
again at the door of the blue room.

Suddenly the silence was broken by the whimper of an old woman.

"Nurse. Don't."

Helen could not recognise the coarse voice which shouted back.

"Shut up--or I'll give you what for."

Helen's fingers clenched into fists and her face grew red with rage.
Lady Warren might be the scourge of the household, but she was old--and
she was in the power of an ill-tempered woman.

But she had learned the penalty of personal interference. This time she
determined that she would appeal to the Professor.

The door of his room was still ajar, while he sat in his original
posture. His head was turned away from her, but she could see his hand
upon the arm of his chair. It struck her that it was rather curious that
he should not have moved during her absence.

"If he's dropped off," she wondered, "ought I to wake him up?"

She crossed the carpet noiselessly, but when she came closer to the
chair she was gripped by a terrible dread. The Professor's face looked
like a mask of yellowed wax, and his lids were clay-hued over his closed
eyes.

On the table, by his side, was a small bottle and an empty glass. Seized
with panic, she shook his arm.

"Professor," she cried. "Professor."

She was no longer afraid of disturbing him. What she dreaded was not
being able to awaken him.



CHAPTER XXII. ACCIDENT



Although Helen called him again and again, the Professor did not stir.
Driven to boldness, she gripped his shoulders and shook him violently.
But he only fell back limply against the side of his chair, like a
corpse galvanised to momentary life.

Smitten with panic, Helen dashed out of the room and rushed downstairs
into the study. As she burst in, Miss Warren raised her eyes from her
book.

"The Professor," gasped Helen. "Come up to him. Quick. I think
he's--dead."

Her speech had the effect of rousing Miss Warren. She led the way,
covering the stairs in long strides. When Helen panted after her, into
the bedroom, she was bending over the inanimate figure in the chair.

"Really, Miss Capel" Her voice held annoyance. "I wish you would think
twice before you frighten me unnecessarily."

"But isn't he terribly ill?" asked Helen, looking fearfully at the
corpse-like figure.

"Of course not. He has merely taken rather too much of a
sleeping-draught."

She picked up the bottle of _quadronex_, and studied it.

"I do not credit my brother with the folly of taking too stiff a dose.
He would not make such a brainless mistake. Probably he may not have
calculated its effect on his own devitalised condition."

She felt his pulse, and then turned away.

"He is all tight," she said. "We can do nothing, but leave him in
perfect quiet,"

Helen stayed, as though rooted to the carpet, staring down at the
motionless figure. It seemed the peak of ironic fate that the Professor
had slipped away from them when she most appreciated his help.

Miss Warren crossed to the bed, picked up an eiderdown, and laid it
across her brother's knees.

"Come, Miss Capel," she said.

"No," said Helen. "I--I'm afraid."

"Afraid of what?"

"I don't know. But our very last man is gone,"

Miss Warren appeared struck by the remark.

"There has been a curiously thorough clearance," she said. "But I cannot
see why you should be alarmed."

"There's been a murder," whispered Helen. "There's a maniac somewhere.
And everyone's going, one by one. I'm expecting things to happen now. It
won't stop here. I may be left, all alone. Or you."

"If you're nervous, why don't you stay with Nurse Barker?"

Helen shrank back as she recalled a recent incident.

"But I'm frightened of her, too," she confessed. "She's bullying Lady
Warren. I heard her just now."

Miss Warren opened her lips in indecision. It was not her habit to offer
explanation, or confidence, to any employee. Some impulse, however, led
her to break her rule.

"I do not usually discuss family matters with anyone outside the
family," she said stiffly: "But I suppose you heard what happened to the
last nurse?"

"Yes. Lady Warren threw something at her."

"Exactly. It has happened before. Lady Warren is of an age and
temperament when she cannot restrain her actions. Purely physical, you
understand."

Helen nodded, to show her comprehension of an evil temper allied to a
lady with a title.

"Unfortunately," went on Miss Warren, "the matron of the Nursing Home
has told me that her staff is unwilling to come to the Summit. So I've
had to request her to send a nurse who is used to restraining her
patients. Someone kind, but firm."

"I don't call her kind," declared Helen. "Won't you go also in, and see
how Lady Warren is for yourself?"

"Very well. We will leave on the light here,"

As they crossed the landing to the blue room, Miss Warren frowned at an
object lying on the carpet.

"What is that?" she asked, peering short-sightedly.

"A chisel," replied Helen, brightening at the sight of it. "I wondered
where it was. I was going to try to screw up your door-handle, but I
forgot."

As she stooped to pick it up, Miss Warren took it from her, and placed
it on a chair inside her own room.

"It looked very untidy," she said. "Have you ever heard of the lines:

"Sow an act, reap a habit.
Sow a habit, reap character.
Sow character, reap Destiny?"

Helen did not reply, as she realised that the question was only a
reproof in disguise. She followed Miss Warren into the blue room. As no
snores sounded from the dim white fleecy mound on the bed, Helen
concluded that Lady Warren was really asleep.

"I hope she's not doped," she thought uneasily.

The air smelt a trifle more sour, with its odours of rotten apples and
rugs. It caused Miss Warren to shudder with distaste.

"A repulsive atmosphere for anyone who is not trained," she said. "I've
had to endure it all day. It has affected my head. That is why I value
Nurse Barker's services, even if you are unable to do so."

Helen understood the hint.

"She means she'll back up the nurse, and I shall go to the wall," she
decided.

She was struck by the mildness of Miss Warren's manner when she tapped
at the dressing-room door.

"May we come in?" she asked.

Nurse Barker gave them permission. She was sitting, with her feet
stretched across a chair, smoking a cigarette, which she laid down on
the ash-tray, while she rose, in grudging respect to her employer.

"I'm sorry to disturb you," apologised Miss Warren. "I only wanted to
know if you'd had any trouble with Lady Warren?"

"She was rather naughty about her sedative," replied Nurse Barker, "but
I soon persuaded her to take it."

"Then I hope you will get a good night."

"In this wind? What a hope. I'm staying up, like every one else."

"Who do you mean?" asked Miss Warren. "I am going to bed. And the
Professor will certainly sleep until morning. He has taken a slight
overdose of a sleeping-draught."

Nurse Barker clicked contemptuously.

"Why didn't he ask me to measure out the right quantity?" she asked.

"The Professor would hardly ask a woman to do what he could do better
himself," said Miss Warren stiffly. "He might have been aware of what he
was doing when he insured some sleep. He knows the importance of
conserving his strength, with so many dependent on him."

Nurse Barker was not listening to the hint of the source of her own
wages. A phosphorescent gleam--half of alarm, half of satisfaction--lit
up her deep-set eyes.

"Odd," she gloated. "It looks as if someone was clearing the way for
himself."

Helen saw panic leap into Miss Warren's eyes.

"How is that possible?" she asked. "There is a good reason for all that
has happened. Take one instance alone. Mr. Rice, and my nephew and his
wife all left this house because I turned out that dog."

"No, you must go back a bit further," declared Nurse Barker. "Did Rice
know you hated dogs?"

"Yes."

"Ah. Then, do you know who first told him about a dog for sale?"

Helen listened with a chill at her heart. Did the sequence of events
appear harmless because she saw only the trivial links? How far back did
the chain really stretch? To what dark brain did it lead?

It was a relief when Miss Warren spoke impatiently.

"Of course you could conjecture endlessly, but it is entirely futile.
What sinister agency was at work when I forgot to screw the cap of the
cylinder?"

Helen was on the point of giving the true explanation of the incident,
where she remembered that she must not betray Mrs. Oates' confidence.
She listened, unhappily, while Nurse Barker turned the knife again.

"Now there are only three women in the house," she said.

"Four," corrected Helen proudly. "I saw Mrs. Oates was only confused. So
I pulled her round. She's sober now."

Miss Warren and the nurse stared at Helen.

"It seems to me," said Miss Warren reflectively, "that you are capable
of looking after yourself."

"I've done it all my life," Helen assured her.

"I'm sure you're equal to an emergency, Miss Capel," she said. "All the
same, if you do not intend to go to bed, I should feel easier in my mind
if I knew you were with Mrs. Oates.'"

Helen, who was beginning to crumble under the combined excitement and
strain, began to gulp at this unexpected sign of consideration.

Mrs. Oates was still slumped down in her chair when she returned to the
kitchen; but she had climbed out of her slough of depression. Some of
her old jovial humour beamed from her eyes as she shook her finger at
Helen.

"Stealing about on rubber heels?" she asked. "Trying to put salt on my
tail, are you. You'll find I'm too old a bird to be caught that way."

"The plot thickens," Helen said dramatically. "Exit the Professor."

Mrs. Oates listened to her story of the Professor's mishap with little
concern.'

"He's no loss," she said. "He does nothing but sit in his study, and
think."

"That's my point exactly," explained Helen. "Without him, we're a body
without a head."

Apparently, the same thought had occurred to Nurse Barker, for, a little
later, she entered the kitchen with the dignity of a queen who had
temporarily laid down her sceptre.

"I thought we had better have an agreement," she said. "In the
Professor's absence, who is to assume authority?"

"The mistress, of course," replied Mrs. Oates.

"She's not competent," declared Nurse Barker. "She is definitely a
neurotic type. You must allow me to know my own subject."

"I shall continue to take my orders from her," said Helen. "she engaged
me, and she pays my salary."

"Hear, hear." Mrs. Oates clapped her hands. "Listen to the doctor's
young lady, telling you off."

"I didn't know you were engaged to Dr. Parry," said Nurse Barker.

Her thin lips were sucked together in a thin line while her sunken eyes
gleamed with jealousy.

"I'm not," said Helen hastily.

Although the subject was obviously tender Nurse Barker seemed unable to
discard it.

"I suppose it's your size," she said. "Rum how men always choose short
women. It's a sign of their own mental inferiority. They know that your
brain corresponds with your size, and they feel unable to cope with
their intellectual equals."

The speech made Helen see red, for she was sensitive on the score of her
defective education.

"Perhaps they find us more attractive," she said.

Nurse Barker lit a cigarette with fingers which shook with passion.

"You mean to insult me deliberately," she said huskily. "Isn't that
rather unwise? Very soon you'll be left alone with me."

"Mrs. Oates will be here, too," Helen reminded her.

"Will she?" Nurse Barker gave a meaning laugh. "If I were you I wouldn't
bank upon that."

Puffing fiercely at her cigarette, she tramped out into the hall.

"What did she mean?" asked Helen uneasily.

"Bilge," commented Mrs. Oates. "All the same," she added gloomily, "we
didn't ought to do it. She came down here for a crack and we turned her
sour. I begun it, and you finished it."

"She shouldn't leave poor old Lady Warren so much," said Helen
defensively.

"Now, don't go and be sorry for her," advised Mrs, Oates. "She can take
care of herself. Locking up them two is like shutting in a lion with a
tiger. You wonder which will walk out in the morning."

"I wish I could be sure that Lady Warren can defend herself," Helen
said. "I've got a real fear of that nurse.'"

"Don't let her know it," advised Mrs. Oates.

"No." Helen glanced at the clock. "I wish I knew exactly whereabouts on
the road Mr. Oates is at this minute," she said. "The time seems to
crawl. If only I can last out, till he comes."

"Why shouldn't you?"

"I've a terror of one thing, which may happen to me," confessed Helen.

"Don't tell me," urged Mrs. Oates. "You never know who may be listening
to you."

Helen opened the kitchen door and looked into the deserted basement
hall.

"This is what I'm scared of," she said. "Supposing I heard a child
crying outside. I believe I should have to go out. Just in case, you
know."

"Now, don't you go and be a fool," implored Mrs. Oates. "In all the time
I've been here there's never been a baby parked on the doorstep. Miss
Warren's not the sort to come home with a bundle in her arms."

Helen laughed as she sprang to her feet.

"I feel so guilty," she said. "She'll be wanting to go to bed soon, and
the handle of her door is not screwed up."

Grateful for a job, she ran upstairs, to the first floor. Everything
seemed especially safe and normal as she passed through the hall. When
she reached the first floor landing she noticed that the light was
shining through the transom above Miss Warren's bedroom door.

"I hope she's not going to bed," she thought, as she tapped at the door.

"Yes," called Miss Warren's voice.

"Oh, Miss Warren," said Helen, "I'm terribly sorry to disturb you. But
could you hand me out the tools you put on your chair?"

"Certainly, Miss Capel, only don't leave them outside again"

Helen heard Miss Warren's step crossing the polished boards and then the
handle revolved in an impotent whirl.

She watched it, in slight surprise.

"Can't you open the door?" she asked.

"No," was the reply. "The handle keeps turning round in my hand."



CHAPTER XXIII. WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH A DRUNKEN SAILOR?



Although vaguely disturbed, Helen felt mistress of the situation.

"It's all right," she called. "I'll open it, this side."

Full of confidence; she gripped the handle, only to feel it slip round
in her fingers, as though it were oiled.

"It seems to have gone completely," she cried. "You have the tools. Do
you think you could manage to put it right?"

"No, the screw is missing," was the reply. "It doesn't matter. Oates
will repair it early tomorrow."

"But, Miss Warren," persisted Helen, "it's not right you should be
locked in. Suppose--suppose there's a fire?"

"Why should we suppose it? Please go, Miss Capel. I have important work
to finish."

"Is the key your side?" Helen asked.

"No. The lock is broken, so I had a bolt put instead. Now, please leave
me in peace."

Helen turned forlornly away. As she passed the blue room, Nurse Barker,
who had been attracted by the noise, poked her head around the door.

"What's the matter now?" she asked.

When Helen explained the situation she gave a disagreeable laugh.

"What did I tell you? She locked herself in, on purpose."

"I can't believe it," declared Helen. "Why should she do that?"

"Funk. Oh, I've seen it coming on...And--I've seen something else, which
is due before very long. Your troubles are not over yet, my girl."

Helen was impressed by the woman's perspicacity.

"Nurse," she cried impulsively, "I want to apologise to you. If I've
hurt your feelings, it was unintentional."

"Rather late in the day to eat humble-pie," sneered Nurse Barker. "The
harm's done."

"But can't I do something to make up?"

"You can pledge yourself to obedience."

Helen hesitated to give her promise, as her thoughts flew to Dr. Parry.
She knew that Nurse Barker would do everything in her power to block his
interference. On the other hand, he was not likely to rush over to the
Summit, while the woman was a formidable obstacle to any move on the
part of the maniac; she had extraordinary physical strength and a mind
which bit like a ferret.

She gave a military salute.

"I promise, Sergeant," she said.

"This is no joke," frowned Nurse Barker. "I'm not sure I can trust you.
In all my experience, I've never been so grossly insulted as by an
intoxicated char and a raw, untrained girl."

"Oh, Nurse," she said, "I never thought it."

Nurse Barker clocked back to the listen-in incident.

"Yes, she said it," she remarked. "But you were licking up her words."

"No, I had to humour her, because she was a trifle cock eyed. I never
thought what she did."

"What did she think?"

Helen understood the alleged hypnotic power of a serpent, as Nurse
Barker held her with a glittering eye.

"She thought you were a man," she admitted.

Nurse Barker swallowed convulsively.

"She'll pay for that," she muttered, as she turned back to the blue
room.

Helen reviewed as much of the past as she could remember, on her way
downstairs. She wished that her conscience, was entirely clear on the
score of Nurse Barker, as she hated to feel a hypocrite.

On the whole, she felt tolerably comfortable. She had discounted the
razor incident, and had mentioned it to no one. When Mrs. Oates, had
boasted of her conquests, she had disclaimed them. Her dislike of the
nurse was her own affair.

The sight of the telephone reminded her of the latest casualties, which
she had almost forgotten. One fear had again driven out another; and,
for the present, she stood chiefly in dread of Nurse Barker.

"I think I'll ring up Dr. Parry," she thought, "and tell him what's
happened."

It was a long time before she got through to him, and when, at last, she
heard Dr. Parry's voice, it sounded gruff and sleepy.

"What's up?" he asked.

"The Professor's doped," replied Helen, "and Miss Warren's locked in her
bedroom."

As Dr. Parry made no comment, Helen hastened to excuse her action.

"I suppose I shouldn't have bothered you. But it does seem queer the way
they're all disappearing, one by one. What do you think?"

"Blowed if I know," was the reply. "It seems in order. I think Miss
Warren is the wisest. Why don't you follow her good example?"

"Because--you won't believe me, after all the fuss I made about sleeping
in her room--but I don't like to leave old Lady Warren alone with that
nurse."

"D' you think the nurse rough-handles her?"

"I don't know. But I do know she has a horrible temper."

"Then I'll give you a tip. If it should come to a scrap between those
two, put your shirt on the old one."

Although Mrs. Oates had given her the same warning, Helen was not
convinced.

"Thank you for your advice," she said. "I'm sorry I bothered you, but
you encouraged me to be a nuisance."

"Here--don't ring off," urged the doctor. "I'm wondering what to do
about the Professor. Ought I to come over?"

"He looks awful," declared Helen, making the most of her chance.

"He would. What did Miss Warren do?"

"Felt his pulse, and covered him up."

"Good." Helen could hear his sigh of relief. "That sounds all right.
She's a clever woman. Now, we'll leave it at this. If I should change my
mind regarding the situation I'll bike over at once. In fact, you've
only to say one word, and I'll start now."

"You'd come for me?" asked Helen.

"For you, only."

In spite of her exhaustion and loneliness--in spite of the menace of the
night--Helen became suddenly surcharged with glorious life.

"Now I know that," she said, "'I don't want you to come. I feel
gorgeous. I--"

She rang off at the sound of a footstep on the landing. Nurse Barker was
leaning over the balustrade, looking down at her.

"Who was that?" she asked.

"The doctor," replied Helen. "I rang him up, to tell him about the
Professor, but he decided that it was not necessary for him to come
over."

"He would prefer to take us by surprise," prophesied Nurse Barker. "I
don't trust that young man...And hadn't you better go to your alcoholic
patient? You're giving her more rope than I should."

Filled with sudden misgiving, Helen hurried across the hall. As she
opened the door leading to the basement, she kicked in front of her some
hard object, which bumped from step to step with an appalling clatter.
Running downstairs after it, she picked up, from the mat at the bottom,
a small pint milk-can.

"Mrs. Oates," she cried, as she entered the kitchen, "Who put this at
the top of the stairs?"

"I don't know," replied Mrs. Oates.

In sudden suspicion, Helen looked up at the dresser. To her relief, the
bottle was still on the top and apparently untouched.

In spite of this proof of her innocence, Helen fancied she detected a
deterioration in Mrs. Oates. The maudlin grin, which robbed her face of
its underhung tenacity, hovered around her lips, imparting a muddled
expression. As Helen watched her, the lines of a sea-shanty swam into
her head.

"What shall we do with a drunken sailor?"

"After tonight, I could write a book on this subject," she thought, with
the glib assurance of one who only wrote a letter, as a penance.

It was evident that Mrs. Oates was making stupendous efforts to
concentrate on Helen's tale of Miss Warren's door-handle, for she kept
repeating every point, in the form of a question.

"Oates will want some supper," was her only comment. Helen took the
hint, and picked up a tray.

"I'll help you get it," she said. "Get up."

Placing her hands under Mrs. Oates' armpits, she gave a strong hoist.
But the woman only slipped back again.

"You must let me take it easy for a bit longer," she advised. "Remember,
I've a half-bottle inside me. I'll soon be all right."

"All right," said Helen. "I'll carry on, alone."

It struck her that it might be a valuable test of her own will-power, to
go, alone, into the larder. As she opened the scullery door, and snapped
on the switch, every corner of its clean bareness was revealed by the
yellow glow. Outside, in the passage, she could hear the loose window
banging against its shutter.

The sound was distinctly nerve-racking, for it gave the impression that
someone was determined to force an entry. The passage, too, looked a
gloomy tunnel, in the dim light. Around the bend, stretched the dark
labyrinth of Murder Lane.

Helen knew that she must keep her imagination strictly controlled. She
must not think of the horror which had actually taken place within these
walls, or wonder if the girl still lingered somewhere in the atmosphere,
the dust, or the stones.

Reminding herself that she had policed this stretch herself, and
searched thoroughly every potential hiding-place, she entered the
larder.

Besides a side of bacon and string of onions, its shelves held so many
tins and bottles that Helen's curiosity took charge of the situation.
The Summit laid in a heavy store of preserved provisions, so that it was
difficult to make a choice.

Her eye was greedier than her stomach, as she piled her tray with
tongue, sardines, dainties in aspic, and pots of savoury paste.

Balancing it on her hip, she switched off the light at the same time as
she kicked open the scullery door. Instantly, there was a loud rattle,
as a tin tray crashed down on the stone flags.

Helen frowned thoughtfully, for she did not like the repetition of the
trick. Suddenly she was rent with a suspicion which was vaguely
alarming. Mrs. Oates could not hear her when she walked soundlessly in
bedroom shoes, so she had placed these tins in order to have some
warning of her approach.

If it were true, she had something to hide. She was not playing the
game. In spite of her load, Helen crashed recklessly into the kitchen.

Mrs. Oates was still in her chair, her back turned to wards Helen, while
Nurse Barker stood over her, with folded arms.

"Where have you been?" she asked.

"Larder," explained Helen. "Getting some supper for Mr. Oates. We
thought we could all do with a snack, just to pass the time. Could you?"

Nurse Barker nodded, while a peculiar smile flickered round her lips,
causing Helen to rush into nervous explanations.

"I thought Mrs. Oates and I would have ours, down here, and I'd carry up
yours into your dressing-room. Will that suit you? And what kind of
sandwiches would you like?"

"Ask Mrs. Oates which she would prefer," said Nurse Barker. "I thought
you undertook her responsibility."

Filled with foreboding, Helen slammed down her tray, and rushed around
to Mrs. Oates. But, before she could reach her, the woman stretched her
arms upon the table, and laid her head on them.

"What's the matter?" cried Helen. "Are you ill?"

Mrs. Oates opened one eye, with difficulty.

"I'm that sleepy," she said, "I--I--"

As her voice died away, Helen shook her shoulder.

"Wake up," she cried. "Don't leave me. You promised."

A gleam of smothered recollection fought with the guilt in Mrs. Oates'
eyes, and then died out.

"Someone's--got--me," she said. "I'm doped."

Dropping her head again on her arms, she closed her lids and began to
breathe heavily.

With a horrible sense of helplessness, Helen watched her sink into
stupefied slumber. Nurse Barker stood by, licking her lips, as though
savouring the humour of the situation. Presently Helen broke the
silence.

"Can we do anything?"

"Why not offer her a drink?" asked Nurse Barker derisively. "Stimulant
might revive her."

Helen recognised the advice for a jeer. There was no doubt in her mind
as to the cause of the catastrophe. Just as burglars drug a watch-dog,
as prelude to robbery, someone had taken advantage of her absence to
tamper with Mrs. Oates.

Afraid to tax Nurse Barker with the offence--even while she was sure of
her guilt--she tried to keep her suspicion from her face and voice.

"What's the matter with her?"

Nurse Barker gave a scornful bark.

"Don't be a fool," she said. "It's obvious. She's drunk as a lord."



CHAPTER XXIV. A SUPPER-PARTY



In spite of her shock, Nurse Barker's words were almost a relief to
Helen. Like an explosion inside her head, hey shot away the foul cobwebs
of suspicion.

No treachery had been at work. There was only a land slide of Mrs.
Oates' good intentions before the pressure of temptation.

"How could she get at the brandy?" she asked. "I'm sure she was not in a
condition to climb on the dresser."

Nurse Barker kicked forward a substantial foot-stool, mounted it,
stretched out her arm, and removed the bottle from the top shelf.

"You forget everyone is not a midget like yourself," she said. "Mrs.
Oates is not so tall as I am, but she has a reach like a gorilla."

Helen bit her lip as she realised how easily she had been duped.

"You must think me a gull," she said. "But I counted on her promise. All
the same, she's not touched the brandy. The bottle's still half full."

Sniffing scornfully, Nurse Barker uncorked the bottle, smelt the cork,
and then shook out a few drops on the back of her hand.

"Water," she remarked.

Helen looked reproachfully down at Mrs. Oates, sunken deep in hot and
steamy sleep.

"What shall we do with her?" she asked helplessly.

"Leave her where she is."

"But can't I put a bandage soaked in vinegar-and-water round her head?"
persisted Helen. "She seems so hot and uncomfortable."

"You'll do nothing of the sort," snapped Nurse Barker. "She has let us
down, and we've no time for her. She's nothing but lumber. Get supper.
I've had no dinner, and I'm sinking. Bring the tray up to my room. We'll
have it there."

Although the words promised a new partnership, Helen felt like a fag to
a new bully.

"What would you like?" she asked eagerly.

"Cold meat, potatoes, pickles, cheese. Don't stop to cut sandwiches.
Make a strong pot of tea. Remember, we've got to keep awake."

"You don't really think there's any danger?" asked Helen apprehensively.

Nurse Barker looked at her fixedly.

"I'm in luck to be saddled with you. You're a fool and a fool is twice
as dangerous as a knave. Can you do elementary arithmetic?"

"Of course."

"Well, then, there were nine persons in the house at dinner-time. Now
there are only two. How many have gone?"

"Seven," gasped Helen, horrified by the shrinkage.

Nurse Barker licked her lips with gloomy relish.

"And do you realise what it means?" she asked. "It means he's getting
very close to you."

Although Helen was sure that Nurse Barker was playing on her fear, her
heart sank as the woman went out of the room. In spite of her malevolent
nature, she was some sort of company. One catastrophe after another had
so weakened her resistance that she felt terrified at being alone in the
basement. Every bang on the passage window was duplicated by a knock at
her heart. Although, down below, the roar of the storm was muted, the
garden was nearer. She remembered how the bushes had writhed, like
knotted fingers tapping the glass, and how the tentacles of the
undergrowth had swayed in mimicry of subaqueous life.

"It's trying to get in," she thought. "Suppose there is some secret
entrance I overlooked. Anyone could hide between the two staircases and
in all the empty rooms."

Her one wish was to get upstairs as soon as possible. Although she had
time to cut her sandwiches, while she waited for the kettle to boil, her
appetite for dainties had deserted her.

She hastily prepared her supper-tray, and then returned to her
sitting-room to watch the kettle. As she did so, her thoughts jerked
disconnectedly, like the limping music of an old barrel-organ.

"I believe Miss Warren was grateful to be locked in. The accident
couldn't have happened if I hadn't been so careless. She quoted that bit
about actions and character, Just to tell me it was my fault. So,
between us, we're responsible for that part of it...And no one else."

Although she was comforted by her logic, she shied at the question it
raised. Was there some unseen link in the chain, which had
precipitated--or influenced--this interplay of character?

She, with her impulsive carelessness--Miss Warren, with her
selfishness--and Mrs. Oates, with her craving--had each acted as an
independent agent--true to its own type. Yet the board was re-arranged
as though they had been pawns, used in someone's game; whatever the
impulse of their moves, they were now placed to suit the unseen player.

The kettle coughed out a gust of steam and the lid rose, with a spill of
water. Helen made the tea hurriedly and crabbed up the stairs, shooting
nervous glances over her shoulder. At the top she kicked the door behind
her.

There were no snores from the bed when she passed through the dim blue
room, doing her utmost to subdue the rattle of the china. Inside the
dressing-room Nurse Barker was lighting a new cigarette from her old
stub. She broke into a complaint as Helen put down the tray.

"I've nearly broken my fingers trying to turn that key." She nodded
towards the second door. "Disgusting, putting me in a room next to a
man's bedroom, with a connecting-door."

"It used to be a dressing-room," explained Helen. "Besides, the
Professor is not like that. He won't pay you a visit tonight."

She turned away to hide her grin. Besides amusing her, the incident had
raised her spirits, for it had laid Mrs. Oates' hare as dead as stone.
The last vestige of her suspicion faded, as she realised that Nurse
Barker's fingers lacked the requisite strength of a thug.

"Shall we open the door, so that you can hear Lady Warren call you?" she
asked.'

"She won't," grunted Nurse Barker. "I've fixed her."

"D' you mean you've doped her, like--like babies?"

"Well, why not? That's all she is--an old baby."

"But--it seems rather drastic."

Nurse Barker merely grunted, as she poured out a cup of tea, to which
she added several drops of brandy. Helen watched her, in astonishment,
as she piled her plate with cold potatoes an thick slices of cold meat,
smothered with pickles.

"Enough for a man," she thought, as she followed the clearance of the
meal with wide-eyed interest.

The spirit improved Nurse Barker's temper for she held out the bottle,
in invitation.

"Like a drop in your tea?"

"No, thank you."

"You'll need it before you're much older. That guy has tasted blood. You
saw how Mrs. Oates couldn't keep off the bottle after she'd cracked it.
She had to finish. He's the same--only he's a famished tiger, with
dripping chops."

Helen put down the bit of cheese she was nibbling.

"Nurse," she asked, "why do you dislike me?"

"Because you remind me of someone I hate," replied Nurse Barker. "She
was the spit of you--a little skinny thing, all legs and giggles, with
frizzed-out hair, like a doll. Only, she was a blonde."

"Why did you hate the horrid little blonde?" Helen asked, with a spurt
of her native curiosity.

"Because of a man," Nurse Barker replied. "It was when I was a
probationer. He was a doctor, and very clever. But he was so small, I
could have lain him across my knee and spanked him."

"That's the attraction of contrast," said Helen. "Were you engaged?"

Her interest was not assumed, because Nurse Barker's strange confidence
had stirred up the sweetness of her own romance.

"Odd," she thought, with a flicker of her submerged sense of drama.
"Here we are--the long and the short of it--coming together over a cup
of tea, because we are both in love."

"Not engaged," replied Nurse Barker. "Just leading up. It would have
happened. But the blonde took him away from me, curse her."

"What a shame," said Helen, with real sympathy.

"Shame?" Nurse Barker laughed bitterly. "It was my life. That was my
only man. There's never been another--never will be."

"Were they married?" asked Helen.

"No, she threw him over. She only wanted to take him from me. But there
was only the husk of him left. Nothing for me. That's why I hate women
like her. If a man wanted to twist their throats, I'd say good luck to
him."

As Nurse Barker glared at Helen the girl shrank into her shell. Her
desire to talk about her own hope was slain; she only sought for some
way to avert the penalty of an unlucky resemblance.

"Do you know," she said, "you and I have a lot in common. We're in the
same boat. Men have always ignored me--because I am small."

The greedy glitter in Nurse Barker's eyes told her that she had
swallowed the bait.

"Isn't the doctor your fancy-man?" she asked.

"Of course not. That was only Mrs. Oates' fairy tale. I've never had a
real affair. I've always had to earn my own living, and I've never had
money to buy clothes."

"Are you speaking the truth?" insisted Nurse. Barker.

Helen nodded, as she remembered the humiliation and neglect which had
marked her girlhood. And Nurse Barker believed her, in spite of her
likeness to the blonde, as she stared at her with penetrating eyes.

At that moment Helen appeared an ill-developed scrap--superfluous,
unskilled labour--nobody's woman. If she were murdered, she would not be
missed, or mourned, and one more job would be released.

But, although she felt only contempt for the weakling, she no longer
bore her a grudge.

As she took up the bottle of brandy Helen gave a cry of protest.

"Please don't."

"D' you think I'm going to pass out on a toothful of brandy?" sneered
Nurse Barker.

"It's not that. But after what's happened, I'm terrified. Suppose that
brandy is doped."

"If it is, you'll be left all alone. I'll risk it." She raised the cup
to her lips and drained it. "It might be the best thing that could
happen to me," she continued. "When he comes, he'll go for you. If I
interfere, he'll turn on me, too."

"But I'd stick to you," cried Helen. "There's only two of us left. If
anything happened to you, I think I should go mad with terror."

"It all depends on you," said Nurse Barker spitefully.

"You are the weak spot. You'd double-cross me to save your own skin."

It seemed useless to argue further. Unable to eat, Helen sat and watched
Nurse Barker finish her supper. It was a protracted process, for she
smoked between every mouthful.

The small room was hazed with smoke, so that Nurse Barker's gigantic
white figure loomed through a fog. Sometimes Helen's vision played her a
trick, and she appeared to spread out like a cloud. The atmosphere, too,
was close and torrid as a jungle.

"I must keep awake," she thought desperately. "If I take my eyes off
her, she will disappear."

Yet, even as she strove to concentrate on her surroundings, at the back
of her mind was a desperate conviction that she was trying to grip
something, which, even then, was slipping through her fingers. Mrs.
Oates had failed her, and Nurse Barker would fail her too. But, at
least, the night was passing. Apparently the same thought struck Nurse
Barker, for she glanced at her little travelling clock upon the
mantelpiece.

"We may expect him now, any minute," she said. "I wonder what his first
move will be."

Helen checked her shudder, as she realised that the bully was merely
tormenting the new fag, in order to make her squeak. With a flicker of
her old spirit, she made a sudden counter-attack.

"Don't forget this," she said. "No one seems to trouble much about me,
alive--but I'd be mighty important if I was dead. If anything happened
to me, here, tonight, there'd be an inquiry, and lots of publicity, And
they'd hold you responsible,"

Nurse Barker's eyes drew together, for she had overlooked this
contingency, She had to depend on her profession for a living, and her
reputation might be damaged if she had to undergo a gruelling
examination at an inquest, and could not disprove a charge of cowardice.

"Don't be a fool," she said. "We hang together--What is that noise?"

Helen heard it, too--a low, muffled thud, from somewhere downstairs.

"It sounds like knocking," she said.

"Don't go to find out," Nurse Barker warned her. "It may be a trick."

"But I must. It might be Oates."

Before Nurse Barker could stop her, she had opened the door, and was
running noiselessly through the blue room. When she reached the landing,
the sound was clear and imperative--a loud tattoo on the front door,
followed by the pealing of the bell.

Helen stopped dead and gripped the balustrade--her brain paralysed by
the poison of Nurse Barker's warning. The person who waited outside
might be Oates, who had returned--sooner than she had dared to hope.
Yet--for that very reason--she dared not stir.

Suddenly a new idea sprang to birth. Instinctively she knew that Dr.
Parry was knocking at the door. In spite of his reassuring words, he had
not been satisfied with the situation at the Summit.

Her eyes shining with welcome, she dashed down the stairs, just as Nurse
Barker reached the landing.

"Stop," she shouted. "Don't open the door."

"I must," panted Helen, calling over her shoulder. "It's the doctor. He
promised to come. I must."

She heard Nurse Barker's heavy footsteps thudding in pursuit, and she
tried to run faster. In spite of her efforts, however, just as she
reached the swing doors leading to the lobby, she felt herself held in
strong arms.

"Hush, you little fool," whispered Nurse Barker hoarsely, as she laid
her hand over Helen's lips. "He's outside."



CHAPTER XXV. THE WATCHER



In spite of the conviction in Nurse Barker's voice, Helen continued to
struggle, She was positive that Dr. Parry was outside the door. It was
torture to feel he was so near to her and yet she could not break
through to him.

From the first she knew she was beaten, for Nurse Barker had her
pinioned inside one arm, while she pressed her hand heavily over her
face. The strength of her grip was amazing; and Helen could only
kick--feebly, but frantically--with soft felt soles.

The knocking and ringing seemed to go on for an eternity. When it
ceased, Nurse Barker did not relax her grasp, but waited, until she
heard a distant hammering from another part of the house.

"He's gone round to the back door," she said grimly, "He's persistent.
And so am I."

Helen could only writhe weakly, for her sufferings had become physical
as well as mental. She felt on the point of suffocation, from the iron
pressure around her ribs and over her mouth. When, after a second pause,
the assault was renewed on the front door, she had reached the limit of
endurance.

"Go away, dear. It's no good. For my sake. Go away. It's no good."

As though he actually heard her voiceless entreaties, which raced, in a
circle, round her brain, the knocking was succeeded by so prolonged a
silence that Nurse Barker released her.

"Oh," gasped Helen, stroking her neck tenderly. "You've nearly choked
me."

Nurse Barker gave a short, grating laugh.

"So that's the thanks I get. Pity I didn't let him in. He'd have cured
you of sore throats for a long time to come. You are not worth the
saving."

"You didn't save me," Helen said. "That was Dr. Parry."

"How do you know?"

"Because he promised he would come to me."

Nurse Barker drew her bushy brows together.

"You told me he was not your lover."

Helen felt too low-spirited to protest.

"What does it matter--now?" she asked wearily. "You've sent him away."

"Only this. It means you lied to me, just now. You tried to trade on my
sympathy. And all the time you were laughing at me, in your sleeve."

As Helen looked at the livid face, she remembered Stephen Rice's remark
that her personal safety depended largely on the character of her
companions.

She could tell by the congestion of Nurse Barker's colour that she had
plunged herself into a hell of jealousy. Suddenly she felt so sorry for
the vindictive, unattractive woman that she lost her dislike.

"I told you the truth," she said gently. "It only happened tonight."

"What happened?"

"Nothing." Helen gave a little low laugh. "But--it's everything, all the
same. There's something in him that draws out something in me. So, he
must feel the same, or he couldn't call to me. You understand, don't
you? It happened to you, too."

In her eagerness to forge a link between them, she caught Nurse Barker's
hand. But the woman pushed her away with such force that she fell on her
knees.

"Yes," she said, "I know exactly how it begins. I know the end, too. A
hollow cheat, with frizzy hair, like yours."

"But it's not fair to punish me for someone else's fault," protested
Helen. "I've done you no harm."

"And you've done me no good. You've been pert and insolent about my
personal appearance. Because I'm tall, and my face shows character, you
dared to compare me with a man."

"I never did. Oh, do be friendly, if only for tonight. We oughtn't to be
fighting like this."

"Oh, yes, I get your angle. Men find small women more attractive, don't
they? But small women need protection. You'll miss me when I'm gone, and
you are left alone."

The words struck a chill to Helen's heart.

"If that happened," she said, "I think I should die of fear. But I
won't."

"It may." The woman looked don her nose, while a fugitive smile darkened
her lips. "We have assumed that the Professor is drugged, and the cook
is drunk. But how do we know that they've not been doped?"

It was a horrible possibility which appalled Helen, as she remembered
Mrs. Oates' mumbled excuse.

"Who could dope them?" she cried.

"Someone might have crept in by the basement," suggested Nurse Barker.
"Things have been most peculiar all the night, just as if someone was
working the trick from inside." She added, with sinister meaning, "We
shall know, if I pass out. I took brandy in my tea. I wonder if it's
that which makes me feel so dizzy?"

As she spoke, she staggered slightly, and passed her hand over her brow.
Helen stared at her, speechless with horror. In spite of the woman's
venom, she clung to her as desperately as a drowning person clings to
his rescuer.

Although her common sense reminded her that Nurse Barker was plugging at
her alarmist policy in order to terrify her, events over which she had
no control seemed to indicate some subterranean direction of the general
withdrawal.

One after another her companions had left her. They slept, while she
remained, to watch. In the end, she would be alone.

Determined that Nurse Barker should not have the satisfaction of knowing
that she had drawn blood, she kept her head high and her lips steady.
But Nurse Barker looked at her eyes and noticed how the pupils had
swamped the iris.

Helen saw her smile, and was suddenly inflamed at reprisal.

"I can't understand why you should grudge me my first chance of
happiness," she said. "It's mean. When I was hungry, it didn't help me
to know others were hungry, too. In fact, it was worse, for I always had
bread, and could guess what it meant to those who had nothing at all."

"Oh? So you've starved?" asked Nurse Barker.

"Not exactly. But I've gone very short, in between jobs."

"That only proves you're of no use. There's a glut of unskilled labour.
You'd never be missed."

Again Helen glimpsed the blue star of daylight shining at the end of the
tunnel.

"I wish it was tomorrow," she sighed. "Oh, nurse, help me to come safely
through the night."

"Why? You wouldn't put yourself out for me."

"I do wish I could prove it was genuine," Helen said eagerly. "I was a
horrible little beast. But you've grown on me. I think I understand,
now, how your doctor felt."

Nurse Barker listened in silence, her expression enigmatic. In the pause
the telephone-bell rang, with startling shrillness. The sound was music
to Helen's ears, with the reminder that the Summit was still resistant
to the Hollywood tradition of the cut wires.

She rushed across the hall, her pale face suddenly vivid with colour and
glow.

"You were right, as usual," she panted. "Dr. Parry wasn't outside, for
he's ringing me now."

She was so sure of hearing his voice, when she took up the receiver,
that her disappointment was acute at the sound of mincing feminine
accents.

"Is that the Summit?"

"Summit speaking," replied Helen dully.

The next minute, she spoke to Nurse Barker.

"The call's for you."

Nurse Barker arose with an air of importance.

"Who is ringing me?" she asked.

"I don't know."

Unconscious of impending disaster, Helen watched Nurse Barker with none
of her usual interest.

"Nurse Barker speaking. Who is it?...Oh, is it you, dear?"

The Secretary of the Nursing-Home explained the position.

"How nice to hear your voice, dear. I'm still on duty. We've a rush op.,
and I'm trying to get Blake. He's on holiday, and I'm chasing him all
over England. So, while I'm waiting I thought I'd ring you up, just in
case you hadn't gone to bed."

"Not much chance of that," said Nurse Barker.

"That doesn't sound too bright. Isn't the case comfortable?"

"Most uncomfortable. In fact, it's all most unpleasant and very
peculiar."

"I'm not surprised, dear. I think you ought to know that someone rang me
up and asked me the most extraordinary questions about you."

"About me?"

Helen caught the inflection of Nurse Barker's voice.

With a sinking heart, she listened to half of the dialogue.

"Please repeat that...Indeed. Anything else?...What? The insolence...Who
rang you up?...You are sure it was a girl's voice?...When? Please try to
remember, because I mean to trace this back to its source...Are you sure
it was that time?...Then I know which girl it was, for the other had
left the house...Not at all. You are quite right to let me know.
Good-bye."

Nurse Barker rang off, and looked at Helen.

"You wanted to prove yourself?" she asked. "Well, you've done it.
Completely. You're a liar and a sneak. If I could save your neck by
lifting my little finger, I wouldn't do it."

Helen opened her lips dumbly, in an effort to explain. But her mind felt
as incapable of coagulation as a lightly-boiled egg. She could only
realise that she had alienated the defence, and that a man was prowling
outside, in the streaming darkness.

The man was still there, encircling the house. Lashed by the gale, twigs
flogged his face, like wire whips, as he stooped over the sodden ground
to examine each small basement window.

Once he thought he had found a vulnerable spot, for a casement shook
before his pressure. Inserting his pen-knife inside the frame, he hacked
away a makeshift fastening of a peg and some string, but only to meet
the resistance of an inner shutter.

The house was armed to its teeth. It was blind and impregnable as an
armoured car.

Dr. Parry should have been pleased by this evidence of obedience to his
orders. He had advised the most stringent precautions. Yet, as he looked
upwards at the blank walls, seeking in vain a gleam of light from some
upper window, he felt a chill.

He had always disliked the tree-muffled isolation of the Summit,
although he was a lover of solitude.

Endowed with swift intuitions--swayed by violent likes and dislikes, he
recognised--and fought--a streak of superstition in his nature. At that
moment he distrusted the exterior of the Victorian house, whose tall
chimneys seemed to bore the ragged clouds.

Suddenly he thought of a simple way of getting into communication with
Helen. Snapping on his lighter, he searched in his pockets to find a
scrap of paper. When he had discovered an old envelope, he managed, with
difficulty, to scrawl a message upon it. Then he slipped it into the
letter-box and gave the postman's traditional double-knock.

"That'll bring her down, quicker than a stick of dynamite," he thought,
as he withdrew to a position on the gravel drive which commanded a view
of the house.

As the minutes passed, however, and no signal-light gleamed from any of
the upper windows, he grew apprehensive. The lack of response was not
typical of Helen's curious nature. With a memory of her sensational
scampers up the stairs, he knew that it would not take her long to reach
the second floor, even if she had followed his advice to sleep in the
basement.

Presently he grew tired of standing in the rain, as though he were
planted with the trees. It was evident that the Summit--following her
character of respectable widow--was not at home to stray knocks, after
dark.

He was on the point of turning away, when a light glowed in a bedroom on
the second floor. The window was closed, but not shuttered, and screened
by a light curtain of turquoise-blue.

At the sight his face lit up with welcome. Not until he was on the point
of hearing her voice again, did he realise the strength of his feeling
for Helen. The glow in his heart rose to his lips and flamed into a
smile. His lover's rapture made the subsequent disappointment the
keener. With a shock of positive horror, he saw--thrown upon the light
screen of the curtain--a furtive, crouching shadow.

It was the head and shoulders of a man.



CHAPTER XXVI. SAILOR'S SENSE



Outside the Summit was elemental fury; inside, the clash of human
passions. Terrified by Nurse Barker's dark, swollen face, Helen grew
almost frantic in her efforts to conciliate her.

"Oh, can't you understand?" she implored. "It was after the murder. We
were all worked up and jumpy. Honestly, I thought it would clear the air
if I made certain we'd got the right nurse. You see, Mrs. Oates was sure
you were an impostor."

Her explanation only fed Nurse Barker's anger. Encased in the frame of a
giantess was a dwarfed nature, which made her morbidly sensitive of the
impression she created on strangers.

"You tried to worm yourself into my confidence," she declared
vehemently. "You led me on to talk of--sacred things. And then, directly
after, you rang up the Home. A dirty trick."

"No," protested Helen. "All this happened before our talk. I've been
loyal to you, ever since my promise."

"That's a lie. I caught you at the telephone."

"I know. But I was ringing up Dr. Parry."

Nurse Barker only sucked her lips together in a crooked line. She knew
that silence was the best punishment she could administer, since it kept
the girl on the prongs of suspense.

As Helen waited, fearfully expectant of the next attack, she started at
the sound of a low thud.

Her thoughts flew to the Professor. In her ignorance of the effects of
drugs, she still clung to the hope that he would become conscious in
time to control the situation. But Nurse Barker shattered her illusion,
as she broke her silence, to bark out a command.

"See if the old woman's fallen out of bed."

Glad to be of service, Helen obeyed--rushing up the staircase. When she
reached the landing, she checked her headlong flight, and stole
cautiously into the blue room.

Lady Warren lay huddled up in the big bed, fast asleep. Her mouth was
open and her snores were of genuine origin.

Helen looked around her, noticing that the fire was burning low. As she
carefully piled on some of the snowball coals, she was too engrossed to
hear Dr. Parry's double-knock on the front-door.

Nurse Barker, however, started up, at the sound. Peering suspiciously to
right and left, she pushed open the swing door, and went into the lobby.

Her first glance showed her a white object, gleaming through the glass
of the letter box. Pulling it out, she examined the note with contracted
eyes. It was scrawled on the back of an envelope, which was addressed to
"Dr. Parry," and was signed with the initials, "D.P."

Her heart was wrung with a spasm of jealousy at this proof that Helen's
instincts had been true. While they struggled together, Dr. Parry had
actually been outside the door, insistent and eager.

"She knew," she muttered. "How?"

The girl's familiarity with the windings of love's labyrinth was a
mystery to the thwarted woman, who, all her life, had hungered for a
clue to help her to thread the tangle. Only once had she ventured a
little way into the maze, but had never reached its heart.

But Helen knew how to draw the heart out of a man, and how to call to
him, so that--at the end of a hard day--he lost his sleep, for her sake.

Nurse Barker could appreciate the extent of the sacrifice on the part of
a general practitioner. Her eyes were like flints as she read the note,
which was obviously meant for Helen.

"Have biked over, to see how things are, for myself. Been knocking like
mad, but no luck. When you get this, open your bedroom window, and I'll
shout up to you, so that you'll know it really is I, and not some trick.
But, for Heaven's sake, let me in. I'll explain everything to the
Professor, afterwards."

From the moment she had first set eyes on Helen, Nurse Barker had been
frantically envious of her. She was just the type which she, herself,
would have chosen to be quick as a needle and smart as paint. While she
was able to help herself, she was of fairy fragility, which appealed to
the protective instincts of men.

She swallowed convulsively, as she tore the paper into tiny fragments
and dropped them inside the drain-pipe unbrella-stand.

"Dead Letter Office," she murmured grimly.

Meanwhile, Helen was busy in the blue room, unconscious of the
destruction of her vital mail. She straightened disarranged furniture,
shook up cushions, and put away articles of clothing; presently she came
out on the landing laden with a big basin of soapy water and an armful
of crumpled towels.

As she did so, she was vaguely aware of some stir in the atmosphere, as
though someone had come that way, a few seconds before her. The door
leading to the back-stairs, quivered faintly, as though it would swing
open, at a touch.

Her small white face swam up in the dim depths of the mirror in the old
familiar way; but, as she drew nearer, she noticed something which was
both mysterious and disturbing. A faint mist blurred the glass, about
the height of a man's mouth.

"Someone stood here, a few seconds ago," she thought fearfully, as she
watched the patch become bright again. Gripping her basin with stiff
fingers, she stared at the closed doors. She was afraid to take her eyes
off them, lest one should open--afraid to move, lest she precipitated
the attack.

Suddenly her nerve crashed. Putting her basin down on the carpet, she
turned, and hurled herself down the stairs. Nurse Barker watched her as
she sank down, panting, on the lowest step.

"Well?" she asked with cool unconcern.

Ashamed of her unfounded terror, Helen rapidly became composed.

"Lady Warren is asleep," she said. "We didn't hear her."

"Then where have you been all this time?"

"Tidying the room."

"You've not been up in your own room?" Nurse Barker asked.

"No."

"Well, I wouldn't, if I was you. It's a long way up, in case you met
someone."

Again the dull thud banged in the distance.

"There it is again," said Nurse Barker. "I wish it would stop. It gets
on my nerves."

As she listened, Helen suddenly located the sound.

"It's down in the basement. It must be the window I tied up. It's blown
open again."

She hastened to add quickly, "It's all right. There's a shutter up, so
no one can get in."

"It's criminal carelessness, all the same," declared Nurse Barker, with
an elaborate yawn.

"Are you sleepy?" asked Helen sharply.

"My eyes are just dropping," declared Nurse Barker, with another yawn.
"It's all I can do to keep them open. I came straight off night-duty I
ought to have had a night in bed, between my cases."

With a chill at her heart, Helen recognised the too familiar signals of
the landslide. While she had been afraid of Nurse Barker succumbing to
some treacherously-administered drug, she was, in reality, nearly
overpowered by natural sleep.

As she watched her, Helen realised that her failure to stay awake was
inevitable. Nurse Barker was due for a good night's rest. She had made a
journey in an open car. Since then she had eaten and smoked heavily, and
had taken a fair quantity of brandy. The air of the shuttered house too,
was close.

There seemed no connection between this latest example of cause and
effect, and the mysterious conspiracy which threatened Helen's safety;
yet her fear of being left alone to watch was real, because the incident
was timed with such horrible accuracy.

Suddenly, Nurse Barker's head dropped forward with a jerk, which
awakened her. She staggered as she rose slowly to her feet.

"Where are you going?" asked Helen anxiously.

"Bed."

"Where?"

"Patient's room."

"But you can't do that. You can't leave me here, alone."

"The house is locked up," Nurse Barker said. "You're safe, as long as
you remember not to open the door. If you, forget again it's your own
funeral."

"But it's worse than that," wailed Helen. "I wouldn't tell you before,
because I wasn't sure."

"Sure of what?" repeated Nurse Barker.

"I've a terrible fear that someone is in the house, locked in with us."

Nurse Barker listened sceptically to the story of the rustle on the back
stairs and the blur of breath on the mirror.

"Wind," she said. "Or mice. I'm going to bed. You can come up too, if
you're going to throw a fit."

Helen hesitated, swayed by temptation to accept the offer. If they
locked the Professor's door, as well as the blue room, they would be
secured in an inner citadel, together with the vulnerable members of the
household.

But Mrs. Oates would be left outside, in the trenches. In spite of the
special Providence which was supposedly detailed to guard her, Helen
felt she could not risk leaving her there.

"Could we, possibly get Mrs. Oates up to the blue room?" she asked.

"Drag a drunken log up two flights of stairs?" Nurse Barker shook her
head. "I'm not taking any."

"But we can't leave her there. Remember, we should be held responsible,
tomorrow morning."

Fortunately Helen struck the right note, for Nurse Barker was caught by
the argument.

"Oh, well, I'll have to make do with a lay-down in the drawing-room."

Helen followed her into the big tasteless room, which still blazed with
electric light. It held traces of its last tenants--the careless, bored
youngsters--whose pose of modern indifference had been so fatally
shattered by the split-atom of passion.

Coffee-cups, with sodden cigarette-ends inside, were scattered about,
together with stray sheets of newspapers, open magazines, choked
ash-trays. Nurse Barker collected a couple of satin cushions, which lay
on the carpet; tucking them under her head, she stretched herself out on
the vast blue settee.

Closing her eyes, she fell, almost instantly, to sleep.

"Now, I'm alone," thought Helen. "But I can wake her up, if anything
happens."

As she kept vigil, she looked around her with strained eyes, dilated to
black pools. There was no danger of her being soothed, insensibly, to
unconsciousness, by the rhythm of Nurse Barker's heavy regular
breathing. Her brain was excited to a pitch when it became a store-house
of jumbled impressions.

But, through the chaos and confusion, she knew that she was chasing a
memory.

Suddenly she remembered. The basement window. It had been left open, for
minutes at a stretch, while the bar of its shutter lay uselessly on the
kitchen table, and she and Stephen Rice had gloated over Mrs. Oates'
ancient history.

Her heart gave a leap, but she tried to reason herself out of her panic.
It was the hundredth chance that the criminal, with acres of lonely
countryside for shelter, would rush into a house, filled with
people--the thousandth chance, that he would find the one point of
entry.

"But, if he did," thought Helen, "he could hide in any of the dark
cellars. And then, when the coast was clear, he could make a dash
through the scullery and kitchen, for the back-stairs."

There was only one, way of safeguarding Mrs. Oates. She would have to
make a thorough search of the basement. When she had satisfied herself
that it was empty, she must lock the kitchen door, and take away the
key.

Nurse Barker did not hear her, as she went out of the room. The woman
was sleeping too heavily to be aware of the noise of the gale, which
shook the long windows, with its fury.

Presently she awoke with a start, and sat up rubbing her eyes. Refreshed
and alert, she looked around for Helen, who had kept vigil, by her side.

But the girl had disappeared.

Dr. Parry, too, no longer stood, like a sentinel, in the garden. Almost
directly after the head and shoulders had been shadowed on the curtain,
the light in Helen's bedroom went out.

As he waited for something else to happen, he did his best to master his
uneasiness. Although he knew that Helen's bush of hair could not assume,
the silhouette of the clean outline of a man, Miss Warren, or the nurse
minus her veil, might have passed across the blind.

Presently he turned away. Conscious that he had let his personal feeling
for a girl work himself up into an unreasonable panic, he was anxious to
get a second opinion on the situation.

Cutting across the plantation, he soon reached Captain Bean's
whitewashed cottage.

The blind was undrawn, so that he could see into the lamp-lit
sitting-room. Captain Bean, in his shirt-sleeves, sat at a paper-strewn
table--a tea-pot beside him. It was evident that he was sitting up late,
to write one of his articles on travel.

In spite of the interruption to his work, he came, at once, to the door,
at the sound of Dr. Parry's knock. His clean-shaven face was a muddle of
small indeterminate features, and his original blond colouring had been
scalded by tropic suns.

"You'll wonder why I'm knocking you up, this time of the night," said
Dr. Parry. "But I'm a bit puzzled about things up at the Summit."

"Come in," invited Captain Bean.

Dr. Parry was rather astonished by the gravity with which he listened to
his story.

"The fact is," he admitted, "there's a girl in that house that I'm not
quite easy about. She's such a scrap. And she's very frightened."

"She's reason to be," snapped the Captain, "after that girl I found in
my garden this evening."

Dr. Parry, who wanted the reassurance of scepticism, stared at him with
anxious eyes. He looked haggard and unkempt, while the stubble of his
chin smudged his face, as though with grime.

However, the Captain gave a comforting hint of personal bias in his next
sentence.

"I never cottoned to that house. And I never cottoned to the family.
I'll walk over with you and have a look round."

"N.d.g." said Dr. Parry hopelessly. "The place is like a fortress. And
you can ring till you pull the wire out."

"Police?"

"I've thought of them. But I don't know what grounds I can give them for
forcing an entry. It's all in order. And I'm chiefly to blame for
that--curse it."

Dr. Parry got up from his chair, to pace the room excitedly.

"It's that shadow that gets me," he said. "In her room. It didn't look
the shape of any woman."

"Still, there are young men about the house," remarked the Captain.

"No, they've all left. There's only the Professor--assuming he's shaken
off the effect of _quadronex_."

Captain Bean grunted as he rammed fresh tobacco into his pipe.

"I want the entire log," he said. "I've knocked about all over the Globe
and seen all the ugliest sights. But that girl's body, in my own garden,
gave me a turn. Since then, I've been thinking of all sorts of things."

He listened, with close attention, to the story, but made no comment.
When it was finished, he rose and drew on his Wellington boots.

"Where are you going?" asked Dr. Parry.

"_Bull_. To 'phone the Police-Station."

"Why?"

"There's some things can't be said. You've got to prove them, by
compass...But I never like it when the rats leave the ship."

"Hell. Stop hinting, man. Say what you mean."

The Captain shook his head.

"You can't call a spade, a spade, when it might turn out to be a ruddy
fork," he said. "I'll only tell you this. I wouldn't risk a daughter of
mine in that house, tonight, for a million pounds."



CHAPTER XXVII. "SECURITY IS MORTAL'S CHIEFEST ENEMY"



At first, Nurse Barker could not credit the fact that Helen was gone.
She looked around her, searching, in vain, for a small blue figure amid
the crowded confusion of settees and chairs. Only the ginger
cat--aroused by her noisy movements--jumped off an old-fashioned Prince
of Wales divan, and stalked from the room.

Thoroughly aroused, she followed him into the hall, where she raised her
voice in a shout.

"Miss _Ca-pel_."

There was no reply--no soft scurry of felt shoes. She drew her brows
together, in displeasure, while her eyes glowed green with jealousy.

She had no fear of misfortune to Helen. In her opinion the Summit was
impregnable. She had been playing on The girl's fear, from a double
motive--to urge her to super-caution, and also, in revenge for fancied
insult.

She told herself that Dr. Parry had managed to get in touch with Helen
in spite of his intercepted note.

"She's let him in." she thought. "Well, it's none of my business."

With professional caution, she always avoided contact with scandal. If
there was suspicion of irregular conduct in any house where she nursed,
she knew nothing about it.

When, on the following morning, the Professor or Miss Warren questioned
her about Dr. Parry's presence at the Summit, she would be able to
assure them that she had kept to her proper place--the patient's room.

With a twisted virtuous smile, she went upstairs to the blue room. As
she entered Lady Warren stirred in bed.

"Girl," she called.

"Now, that's not the way to speak to your nurse," remarked Nurse Barker.

Lady Warren struggled to a sitting posture.

"Go away," she said. "I want the girl"

"Shut your eyes and go to sleep. It's very late."

Lady Warren, however, looked wakeful as an owl, as she stared at Nurse
Barker.

"It's very quiet," she said. "Where's everybody?"

"Everybody's in bed, and asleep."

"Tell the Professor I want him. You can go through the dressing-room."

The remark reminded Nurse Barker of a grievance.

"Do you know the connecting-door won't lock?" she asked.

"You needn't worry." The old woman chuckled. "He won't come in after
you. Your day's over."

Nurse Barker disdained to notice the insult. She had no warning of the
peril which actually would steal through that door, or the shock of
unseen attack--the grip of choking fingers around her throat--the roar
of a sea in her ears--the rush of darkness.

In her security, all she wanted was to settle down for the night. She
was growing sleepy again. As she had no intention of explaining the
sleeping draught fiasco to Lady Warren, she made a pretence of awakening
the Professor. Passing through the dressing-room, she entered his
bedroom.

His chair was placed directly under the high light, so that a pool of
shadow was thrown over his face, which looked unnatural, as though
composed of yellow wax. To increase the resemblance, his seated figure
had the rigid fixity of a mechanical chess-player.

"Is the Professor coming?" asked Lady Warren eagerly, as Nurse Barker
returned to the blue room.

"No, he's fast asleep."

Lady Warren watched her as she crossed the room and locked the door.

"That'll keep her out," she thought with a smile of grim satisfaction.

"Why did you do that?" asked Lady Warren.

"I always lock my door in a strange house," replied Nurse Barker.

"I always kept mine open, so that I could get out quicker. When you lock
out, you never know what you're locking in."

"Now, I don't want to hear anything more from you," said Nurse Barker,
kicking off her shoes. "I'm going to lie down."

But before she dropped down upon the small bed, she crossed to the other
door, which led into his dressing-room, and turned the key, as though
for extra security. In spite of the precaution, she did not go to sleep.
Her thoughts circled enviously around Helen and her lover.

She wondered where they were--what they did.

At that moment, Dr. Parry was suffering solitary torment, while Helen
endured her self-imposed ordeal--alone. Down in the basement, a
flickering candle in her hand, she groped amid the mice, the spiders,
and the shadows.

These shadows held possession of the passage--tenants of the night. They
shifted before her, sliding along the pale washed wall, as though to
lead the way. Whenever she entered an office, they crouched on the other
side of the door, waiting for her.

She was nerved up to meet an attack which did not come, but which lurked
just around the corner. It was perpetual postponement, which drew her
on, deeper and deeper, into the labyrinth.

Footsteps dogged her all the way; they stopped after she halted, with
the perfect mimicry of an echo. Whenever she slanted a startled glance
behind her, she could see no one; yet she could not be assured that she
was alone.

Just as she turned round the bend of the passage and entered the pitchy
alley of Murder Lane, someone blew out her candle.

She was left in the darkness, trapped between the window and the place
where a girl had met with death. In that moment of horror, she heard the
window burst open and the pelt of leaping footsteps.

Suddenly, fingers stole around her throat and tightened to a grip. A
heavy breathing gasped through the air, like a broken pump. She felt the
frantic hammering of her heart as she was swept away on a tidal-wave of
horror.

Presently, the pressure on her neck lessened, as her petrified muscles
relaxed to elastic tissue. In sudden realisation of her own involuntary
action, she released her throat from the clutch of her hand.

The draught which had blown out her candle, still beat on her cheek and
neck. Yet, even while she knew that she was the victim of imagination,
her nerve had crashed completely. Breaking free from the spell which
paralysed her legs, she rushed along the passage, through the kitchen,
where Mrs. Oates snored in her chair, up the stairs, and back to the
dining-room.

The ginger cat occupied Nurse Barker's vacant place on the settee, his
head resting upon the satin cushion. As she stared at him, he jumped
down and followed her up to the first landing.

Still quivering with panic, Helen turned the handle of the door
desperately. When she realised that Nurse Barker had locked her out of
the blue room, she was filled with a healing glow of indignation.

Nurse Barker took no notice of her knocks, until they grew so frantic
that she was forced to get off her bed.

"Go away," she called. "You're disturbing the patient"

"Let me in," cried Helen.

Nurse Barker unlocked the door, but did not open it.

"Go back to your doctor," she said.

"My--what? I'm alone."

"Alone, now, maybe. But you've been talking to Dr. Parry."

"I don't know what you mean."

When Nurse Barker sudden threw open the door, Helen had a shock of
wonder at her altered appearance. She had removed her veil, as well as
her shoes. Instead of the cropped head of Helen's imagination, her
masculine features were crowned with permanently waved hair.

"Where have you been?" she asked.

"Down in the basement," Helen gulped guiltily. "I--I remembered that I'd
left a window open. So I went down to see if anyone had got in."

The girl looked so confused that Nurse Barker realised that her
suspicions had been baseless. She turned back to the blue room.

"I'm going to rest," she said, "even if I can't sleep."

"May I come in with you?" pleaded Helen.

"No. Go to bed, or lie down in the drawing-room."

Her advice seemed sound, yet Helen still clung to company.

"But I ought to stay with you," she said, using Nurse Barker's own
argument. "You see, if anyone's after me, he'll have to dispose of you,
first"

"Who's after you?" asked Nurse Barker scornfully; whirling round, like a
weather-cock in a gale.

"The maniac, according to you."

"Don't be a fool. How could he get in, through locked doors?"

Helen felt as though she were standing on solid ground, after struggling
for foothold in a quicksand.

"Then why have you been frightening me?" she asked reproachfully. "It's
cruel"

"For your own good. I've had pros, like you, their heads filled with
nothing but men, men, men. I had to teach you not to open the door to
the first Dick, Tom, or Harry. Now, I'm going to bed, and you are not to
disturb me again. Understand?"

She was turning away, when Helen caught her sleeve.

"Wait. Why did you think I was with Dr. Parry?" she asked.

"Because he was outside, just now. But he's gone, for good."

In spite of the triumphant gleam in her eyes, as she slammed the door,
Helen felt suddenly revived. For the first time for many hours, she was
free from fear. After the creepy gloom of the basement, the hall,
glowing in the midst of lighted rooms, seemed the civilised family
mansion of any auctioneer's catalogue. She realised that she had just
received a valuable object-lesson in the destructive property of
uncurbed imagination.

"Everything that happened was myself," she thought. "It's like
frightening yourself, by making faces in the glass, when you're a
child."

She called to the ginger cat, who was playing around the door which led
to the back-stairs. But, although he preserved his character for
civility, by purring and arching his back, he explained that he wished
to go down to the kitchen.

Helen dutifully opened the door, when he changed his mind. Instead of
descending to the basement, he pounced on a small object on the
coconut-matting strip, at the foot of the flight.

Helen left him to his game of pretending he had found a mouse. Had she
the curiosity to examine what he was throwing in the air, her new-born
confidence would have been shattered.

It was a small tassel of larch, from the plantation. Someone had brought
it into the house, stuck on to the sole of a muddy shoe and had
thoughtlessly scraped it off, on the mat.

She was the only one--on the day's official return--who had passed
through the plantation. And she had reached her bedroom by way of the
front stairs.

Happily unconscious that the ginger cat had turned detective, and
discovered a valuable clue, she went down to the drawing-room, The divan
invited her to rest, but she was too excited to follow Nurse Barker's
advice. She forgot her anger over the woman's interference, in happiness
at the knowledge that Dr. Parry had made a second journey through the
storm, for her sake.

"I've got a lover, at last," she thought triumphantly, as she crossed to
the piano. She could only play by ear, but she managed to pick out a
fairly accurate reproduction of the Wedding March. Up in the blue room
Lady Warren sat up in bed.

"Who's playing the 'Wedding March'?" she asked.

"No one," said Nurse Barker, not opening her eyes.

"Shut up."

"No," muttered the old woman maliciously, "you didn't hear it. And you
never will."

She listened again, but the music had ceased. Helen had realised that
her performance might disturb the remnant of the household. She closed
the piano, and opened a novel, only to discover that she could not
concentrate on what she read.

She found that she was listening to the noises of the night, as though
she expected to hear some unfamiliar sound.

Presently she got up and turned on the wireless, in the vain hope of
hearing the announcer's voice. But the London Stations had closed down,
and all she got, from the air, was an explosion of atmospherics.

They reminded her of amateur stage effects, and the only time she had
ever appeared in a dramatic performance. It had been a modest business,
at the Prize-giving of the Belgian Convent, where she had received most
of her brief education.

The English pupils had played the Witches' Scene from Macbeth, and she
had been unhappily cast as Hecate. Not only was she inaudible, through
stage-fright, but she forgot the end of her speech, and rushed from the
stage. The lines swam back, now, to her memory, as an unpleasant and
ill-timed warning.

"And, you all know, security is mortal's chiefest enemy."

Helen started, as though the great voice in the chimney were actually
roaring the words. She looked at the old-fashioned comfort of the
room--the white skin rug, the pleated pink silk lamp-shade--which were
mute witnesses, against the violence of murder.

"Of course, I feel safe," she thought. "I'm not left alone. Nurse Barker
is my ally, even if she's got a temper. I haven't got to sleep in the
blue room. Oates will soon be back. And--nothing's happened."

Yet, in spite of the reassurance of her review, she realised that she
was keyed up to a pitch of unnatural expectancy. She was listening so
intently that she believed she could almost catch the high squeak of a
bat.

Something had twanged on her ear, like the vibration of a drawn wire.
She heard it again--slightly louder, faint and wailing as the mew of a
sea-gull.

It was a cry in the night.



CHAPTER XXVIII. THE LION--OR THE TIGER?



Helen raised her head to listen--a great fear at her heart. What she
most dreaded had actually happened--the need to make a perilous
decision.

Yet, the very fact that it had occurred aroused her suspicions. Someone
with a knowledge of her character, was playing a trick on her, in order
to draw her away from the security of the house.

This theatrical element made her tighten her lips in resolution. She had
spoken, in pity, of a child crying out in the darkness and storm. And
here was the child--delivered, according to schedule.

But, as the thin cry was repeated, Helen's lips parted, in suspense.
Although it was difficult to locate the sound, because of the shrieking
of the wind, it seemed to come from somewhere within the house. A new
dread knocking at her heart, she slowly mounted the stairs.

As she did so, the crying grew more distinct, and like the weak sobbing
of someone very young, or very old.

And it came from the direction of the blue room. Once again the natural
element was shaping the drama--yet the result would be the same. She was
being tempted to abandon her last line of defence.

Nurse Barker was the only person left to keep her company. Helen clung
to her, as a child, terrified of the dark, will hang on to a
bad-tempered nurse. She had aroused her antagonism too often to risk
another quarrel.

Next time, Nurse Barker might carry out her threat to leave her alone.
Helen grew cold at the mere thought of desertion. She had been used to
plenty of company; too much of it, in fact, so that she sometimes craved
for solitude.

At this crisis, her early training left her especially susceptible to
the menace of loneliness and her own imagination. She knew that she
would experience all the heralds of a nervous crash; shadows would
flicker over the wall--footsteps creak up the stairs.

"I must keep my head," she resolved desperately.

She reminded herself that Lady Warren was not some gentle old soul, at
the mercy of a brute. At her best, she was a cantankerous old bully; at
her worst, she might be a murderess. When she was younger, she had
killed hundreds of small, defenceless creatures, merely for her own
amusement.

Although Helen was careful to paint Lady Warren's portrait in darkest
hues, she was drawn, imperceptibly, up the staircase, until she stood
outside the blue room.

Presently she heard smothered, hopeless sobbing. It was not assumed for
effect, because it was so low that she could not have known anyone was
crying if she had not strained her ears.

She flinched, as though she had been struck herself, at the sound of a
rough voice.

"Stop that row."

The sobbing ceased immediately. After a pause, Lady Warren spoke
appealingly.

"Nurse. Please, come to me."

Helen heard heavy footsteps crossing the room, and Nurse Barker's voice
raised in a shout.

"If I come to you, I'll give you what for."

Helen felt herself grow hot, as she rapped impulsively on the door.

"Is anything the matter?" she called.

"No," replied Nurse Barker.

"But wouldn't you like me to sit with Lady Warren for a short time?"
persisted Helen.

"No."

Helen turned away, wiping her face.

"That was a near shave," she murmured.

At the top of the stairs she was arrested by the sound of a high scream
of mingled pain and rage.

Hot with indignation, she burst into the blue room.

Nurse Barker stood over the bed, shaking Lady Warren furiously. As Helen
entered, she threw her away from her, so that she lay on her face, in a
heaving crumpled heap.

"You great coward," cried Helen, "Get out of here."

Like David threatening Goliath, Helen looked up at the towering figure.

"The old devil went for me," said Nurse Barker.

"You're a thoroughly bad-tempered woman," she declared. "You are not fit
to have control of anyone."

Nurse Barker's face grew dark as a storm-cloud.

"Say that again," she shouted, "and I'll go out of this room--and not
come back."

"You'll certainly go, and you won't come back," said Helen, carried away
on a wave of power.

Nurse Barker shrugged her shoulders as she turned away.

"I wish you joy of your bargain," she sneered. "When you are alone, with
her, remember you asked for it."

Helen felt the first chill of reaction as the door slammed behind the
woman. There was something ominously definite about the sound.

With a rush of pity, she turned towards the bed. Instead of the
prostrate form, Lady Warren was leaning back against her pillows, a
complacent smile on her lips. Helen experienced the sensation of having
walked into a trap.

"You'd better lie down," she said, anxious to justify her championship.
"Do you feel weak after that awful shaking?"

"What she gave me was nothing to what I gave her," remarked Lady Warren.

Helen stared at her--the dawn of an incredulous horror in her eyes, as
she ran her finger over her lower denture.

"I grudged the money for these teeth," she said. "But they're very good
teeth. I bit her thumb almost to the bone."

Helen gave a mirthless laugh.

"Someone told me to bet on you," she said. "But I didn't believe him. I
wonder--are you the lion--or the tiger?"

Lady Warren stared at her as though she were an idiot.

"Cigarette," she snapped. "I want to get the taste of her out of my
mouth. Quick. Haven't you got any?"

"No."

"Say, 'No, my lady.' Go down to the library and get a box of my
nephew's."

Helen was only too glad of the excuse to leave the room. Too late, she
realised that she had been tricked, and she wanted to make her peace
with Nurse Barker.

As she reached the door, the familiar bass bellow recalled her.

"I feel sleepy, girl. That nurse held my nose and poured a filthy
draught down my throat. Don't disturb me, if I drop off."

When Helen reached the landing, the light shone through the transom
above the bathroom door, while the sound of running water indicated that
Nurse Barker was bathing her thumb.

"Nurse," she called. "I'm terribly sorry."

There was no reply. Helen waited, listening to the splashing of water.
After making a second attempt, with no better luck, she went downstairs
to the library.

When she returned, with a box of cigarettes, the blue room was dimly
revealed in the faint glow of the lamp. Lady Warren had switched off her
bedlight, and had composed herself to sleep.

Helen sat down wearily by the fire. It was burning low, for the stock of
snowballs in the scuttle was running out. Every now and again a twig
tapped the window, like a bony finger giving a signal. The clock ticked,
like a leaking tap, and the wind blew down the funnel of the chimney.

"Here I am again," she said, with a hopeless sense of finality. All the
evening she had been fighting Fate, only to beat the air.

There was one comfort--the night was wearing away. Oates too, would be
on his return journey. But the reminder now brought no prospect of
relief. Nurse Barker would refuse him admission, just as she had shut
out Dr. Parry--or whoever had knocked at the door.

For the first time, Helen realised the possible value of the precaution.
Since she had been tricked by Lady Warren, she felt that she was groping
amid a network of wires and snares.

With newly-awakened suspicion, she glanced at the dim white form on the
bed. It suddenly struck her that Lady Warren was unnaturally still.
There was no sound of breathing, and not the slightest stir of movement.

She remembered that the old woman had been shaken violently and that her
heart was dangerously weak. Smitten with sudden dread, she rushed over
to the bed.

"She'll be the next," she thought. "I shall find her dead."

Her foreboding was fulfilled in a curious manner. Lady Warren was gone,
indeed, while nothing could have been less animate than the pile of
pillows, covered with the fleecy bed-jacket, which occupied her place in
the bed.

Helen stared at the dummy with the stupefaction of Macbeth when he
beheld the forest marching against him. The incredible fable was true,
and Lady Warren could walk.

As she stood, she became aware of a strong odour of drugs. Turning over
one of the pillows, she noticed that it was sopping wet, and stained a
yellowish-brown.

"She tricked the nurse, too," thought Helen.

She had a mental picture of the struggling Lady Warren, turned her head,
between every mouthful of the sleeping-draught, and letting it trickle
out from the corner of her mouth. With a new respect for the old woman's
cunning, she made a brief search of the room, although she was sure it
was but waste of time. As the dressing room, too, was empty, she rushed
out on to the landing.

The light still shone through the bathroom transom, although the
splashing of water had ceased. In her fright, Helen hammered on the
door.

"Nurse," she shouted, "Lady Warren's gone."

The door opened, and Nurse Barker stood looking down at her with
unfriendly eyes.

"What's that to do with me?" she asked. "I've thrown up the case."

"You're not really going?" gasped Helen.

"Directly I've packed my case. Miss Warren will hear, in the morning,
that I was dismissed by the domestic help."

"But you can't do that," cried Helen, in a panic. "I'll apologise.
I--I'll do anything."

"Shut up. I'm through with your promises. I'm going--and I'm going now.
That's my last word."

"But--where will you go?"

"That's my business. I'll find a place for the night. It is not so late,
and I'm not afraid of the dark, or a spot of rain."

Nurse Barker paused, before she added maliciously:

"Once I'm out of this house, I'll feel safe."

She was taking her revenge, as she drove home the horror which Helen had
almost forgotten. The girl gazed at her with imploring eyes while she
gave a parting thrust.

"Keep your weather-eye open. She's up to no good." She glanced at her
bandaged thumb. "And while she's out of the way you had better look for
her gun."

Helen bit her lip as the bathroom door was shut in her face.

"She can't really mean to go out in this awful storm," she decided.

Besides feeling vaguely frightened, she was utterly perplexed, and
worried with a sense of her own responsibility. As it was impossible to
guess what purpose had drawn Lady Warren from her bed, it seemed
hopeless to try and find her. She might play hide-and-seek indefinitely
in that house.

She might even be bent on committing suicide. Not only was she old, but
her life held that dark unexplored corner. Remorse might drive her to
kill herself.

Helen shuddered at the thought of finding her body hanging in the
cellar. Not knowing where to go first, she went back to the blue room.

Her first glance at the bed told her that the dummy had acquired a more
definite shape; and, when she drew nearer, she saw Lady Warren peeping
at her with black slitted eyes.

"Oh, where have you been?" asked Helen.

"In the Land of Nod," was the innocent reply. Her inscrutable stare
dared the girl to disbelieve her statement. Feeling that it was hopeless
to persist, Helen returned to her chair.

"Has the nurse gone?" asked Lady Warren.

"Tomorrow," replied Helen.

"Quick work. I soon clear them out. I hate them. Always washing your
face. Don't move, girl. I want to keep my eye on you."

Helen thought involuntarily of the hidden revolver; and, with her
characteristic urge for information, she had to refer to the subject.

"Mrs. Oates tells me you used to shoot a lot," she said.

Lady Warren threw her a sharp glance before she replied.

"Yes, I used to pot game. D' you shoot?"

"No. I think it is cruel"

"Yet you eat meat. If everyone had to kill their own meat, nine-tenths
of the population would turn vegetarian within a week. I did my job
properly. I didn't wound. I killed."

"But you took life."

"Yes, I took life. But I never gave life. Thank God. Get out of my
room."

Helen started, and then turned her head in the direction of Lady
Warren's pointing finger, Nurse Barker had entered the room. Without
speaking, she marched to the dressing-room, where her belongings were
stored, and shut the door.

As Helen strained her ears, she could hear her moving about, opening and
shutting drawers. Apparently she was making good her threat, and packing
her suitcase, As she sat in the oppressive room she was the victim of a
morbid suspicion, bred of the close atmosphere.

Long ago, two girls had died unnatural deaths in this house. But no one
knew the actual truth about the tragedies. It was smothered in
conjectures, and buried in a vague Coroner's verdict.

"She's queer," thought Helen, glancing uneasily towards the bed.
"Suppose she killed them--and her husband knew. Suppose she shot him, so
that he couldn't tell."

Presently, she realised that the sounds from the adjoining room had
ceased. With a rush of hope, she remembered that there was a divan in
the dressing-room. The probability was that Nurse Barker had decided to
put off her departure until the morning, and was going to bed.

The fact that she was so near inspired Helen with confidence. As she
reviewed the events of the evening, she saw her present position as the
logical result of her own folly. Nurse Barker had been specially
selected, by the Matron of the Nursing Home, to look after a tiresome
patient, with whom, she herself, could not cope.

Helen felt overwhelmed with humiliation.

"If she's not asleep, I'll go in and tell her I've been a horrible
little brute," she decided, "I'll ask her to wipe her boots on me."

Creeping across the carpet to the dressing-room, she cautiously opened
the door--now unlocked. Then she gave a little cry of dismay.

Nurse Barker had gone.



CHAPTER XXIX. ALONE



Helen stared around her with startled eyes. The disorder of the room
pointed to a hurried departure. Drawers had been pulled out, while a
suitcase and umbrella lay upon the table.

"She's not gone yet," thought Helen.

But a moment's reflection robbed her of that hope. Nurse Barker would
naturally leave her heavy luggage behind, to be forwarded to the Home.
An umbrella, too, would be useless in the gale.

Feeling sick with suspense, Helen opened the wardrobe. Nurse Barker's
out-door uniform no longer hung upon the peg. A hurried search through
the chest, showed all the drawers to be empty. All that remained was a
collection of cigarette ends and ash.

It was a planned desertion. With deliberate mental cruelty, Nurse Barker
had left the girl alone--reaching the landing through the Professor's
room.

Helen felt almost overwhelmed by this last blow. Throughout the evening
she had noticed the steady march of events towards some inevitable
climax. While she dimly felt its objective was her own isolation, she
had played into the hands of destiny by goading on Nurse Barker to take
her revenge.

Yet, even so, she had been forced to make her moves, as if she were a
puppet controlled by another will.

"I'm all alone," she thought fearfully.

It was true that others were still in the house; but hers was the only
active brain--hers, the only quick body. The others were shackled by
fetters of flesh.

With a desperate need of company, she opened the sec ond door, and
entered the Professor's room.

But there was no comfort here--only an increase in loneliness. The
Professor--still holding his rigid posture, as though carven in
stone--was too much like a corpse awaiting burial.

She wanted to leave him, yet she dreaded returning to the blue room. The
old woman lacked the human quality, for which she hungered. At this
crisis she would have welcomed the harshest abuse from Nurse Barker,
could have drawn her back.

The longing to hear another voice grew so acute that she went out on the
landing and beat frantically upon Miss Warren's door.

"Miss Warren," she screamed. "Help." But there was no response. She
might have been appealing to a sealed tomb. Only the wind shrieked, as
though a flock of witches sailed overhead, racing the moon, which spun
through the torn clouds like a silver cannon-ball, shot into Space.

"She's cruel," whispered Helen, turning away.

But Miss Warren was too soundly asleep to hear her cries. Contact with
others always gave her the impression that her nerves were drawn through
her skin, and exposed to the open air. Tonight, after all the accidents
and alarms, she felt as though each fibre were actually bruised.

She had the natural craving of a recluse for her own locked study. But
she had been picked out of her shell, made to endure hours of enforced
companionship with an unpleasant old woman, in a lethal atmosphere.

The storm, too, had played havoc with her nervous system. The accident
to her door-handle, which had imprisoned her, therefore, came as a
welcome release from responsibility. She made no effort to free herself,
but slipped her bolt, and shut out the World.

With plugs of cotton-wool in her ears, and blankets piled over her head,
to deaden the noise of the gale, she was soon submerged in the
slumber-sea of utter exhaustion.

Although Helen felt perilously near to collapse, her will still
functioned--telling her that she must not yield to panic. She reminded
herself that all the wires were not cut. She was still linked up with
civilisation. But, as she went downstairs, she realised how hopelessly
she had become entangled in the snare of fear. She could not ask anyone
to come to the house because she dared not draw the bolts.

The Professor had laid down the command that the door must not be
opened; and the order had been dictated by a cool brain, which prepared
for every contingency. His policy had been framed in the interest of the
general safety.

Since then, Nurse Barker had warned her against any disobedience; and
Helen had learned--through bitter experience--that, in the case of Lady
Warren, at least she had been right.

If she, herself, were the ultimate aim of same dark Desire, then this
steady withdrawal of defence was planned to plunge her into such panic,
that, if she heard a knock, she would rush to open the door.

Someone wanted to draw her outside the safety of the Summit.

"If I arranged a signal-knock," she thought, "it wouldn't be safe.
Someone might be listening-in. No. It's hopeless."

Yet she knew that the mere act of talking to another person would act as
a tonic to her flabby nerves. She did not know whether Dr. Parry had
returned; her mind was too confused to calculate time or distance. But,
if he were still absent, she could ring up someone else.

"The Nursing Home," she decided. "I'll tell them about Nurse Barker, and
ask them to send an another nurse."

The fact of having a definite message to send steadied her. Once more,
she was Miss Capel, whose name was only to familiar to the Employment
Bureau and not a stranded nonentity. With a touch of her former
assurance, she took off the receiver.

To her dismay, there was no responsive tinkle; no humming along the wire
told her that she was linked up with the Exchange; no voice inquired her
Number.

The telephone was dead.

She looked around the hall with frightened eyes. She knew that there was
a natural explanation of the silence. The country lanes must be blocked
with poles and wires, wrecked by the fury of the gale. This was no human
plot--it was an Act of God.

But Helen would not admit it. This faithful accompaniment to the
thrill-drama--the cut telephone-wire--had arrived with too-perfect
timing.

"It's not accident," she told herself. "Things don't happen all
together, like this."

She did not know where to feel safe, so great was her fear of the house.
Yet she dared not rush into the storm, lest she should make the very
move which had been planned, by the anonymous player, at the beginning
of the game.

"I'd better go back to Lady Warren," she thought. "After all, I took her
on. She cannot be left."

She went through the Professor's room, in a wild hope that he might yet
awaken from his drugged sleep. With his cool brain to take control, she
felt she would face any danger. But he still lay back in his chair--with
drawn face and clay-coloured lids--as rigid as a mummy in its case.

When she lingered in the dressing-room, she heard scuffle and rapid
footsteps, on the other side of the wall.

"She's got out of bed again," she thought dully.

If her suspicion were correct, Lady Warren did not lack the strength far
a rapid scramble; for she lay composedly covered with her old-lady white
fleece, when Helen entered.

"Why did you leave me, girl?" she demanded. "You're paid to look after
me."

Helen lacked the spirit to lie.

"I went to telephone," she said. "But--the line has been blown down. I
couldn't get through."

As she spoke, Helen became aware of Lady Warren's uneasy glances around
the room. The fact that she had power to be an unwelcome obstacle to
some plan, braced her up to came to grips with the old lady.

"Why did you get out of bed?" she asked.

"I didn't. I can't. Don't be a fool."

"I'm certainly not such a fool as you think. Besides, there is nothing
to hide. You're not officially paralysed or bed-ridden. People have got
the impression that you are helpless--that's all. Why shouldn't you get
out of bed if you want to?"

Instead of being furious, Lady Warren pondered the speech.

"Never tell the whole," she said. "Always keep something up your sleeve
when you're old, and at the mercy of other people. I like to get about,
when no one's looking.

"Of course you do," agreed Helen. "I'll tell no one, I promise."

And then her deathless curiosity prompted another question.

"What were you looking for?"

"My charm. It's a lucky green elephant, with its trunk up. I wanted it,
because I was afraid."

As Helen looked at her, in surprise, because she thought that age
outlived the emotions, she suddenly remembered the cross which hung
above her bed.

"I've something far better than any green elephant," she said eagerly.
"I'm going to fetch it. And then nothing can hurt you--or me."

It was not until she was outside the room that she wondered whether Lady
Warren had wanted to send her away. But, even if she had played into her
hands, she did not care, so strong was her wish to hold her Cross.

"I needn't have been afraid," she thought. "While I forgot about It, all
the time, it was there--keeping me safe from all evil"

Although the wind was howling in the empty rooms on the second floor,
and anyone might keep step with her, on the back-stairs, while she
mounted the front, she felt raised above fear. Fighting the fierce
pressure of the draught, she snapped on the light in her bedroom.

The first thing she saw was the bare wall above her bed.

The Cross had disappeared.

She caught at the door for support, as the ground seemed to collapse
under her feet. An enemy was inside the house. He had robbed her of the
symbol of protection. Anything might happen to her. Nothing was safe or
sure.

At that moment she felt she had reached the dividing line between sanity
and madness. At any moment a cell might snap in her brain. She felt
poised on the lip of a bottomless drop.

And then her mind suddenly cleared of its mist, and she believed she had
found a solution of the mystery.

The disappearance of the Cross was a trick played on her by Nurse
Barker. The woman was hiding somewhere in the house.

Rushing downstairs, to the lobby, she found that her intuition had
played her false. The front door was still bolted, and the chain in its
place.

"Unless she went out by the back-door, which is most unlikely, she's
still here," thought Helen.

Although she was vaguely worried by her loss, the relief was
overwhelming. What she now feared far more than danger outside, was the
threat of peril from within.

The disorder of the bed told her that, in her absence, Lady Warren had
been engaged in her mysterious search. A drawer protruded from a chest,
which stood in an alcove, showing that the old woman had been disturbed
in her labours.

As she was out of sight of the bed, Helen went up to it, and tried to
close it--to be prevented by some object stuffed at the back. Getting
hold of one corner, she managed to pull it. It was a white scarf.



CHAPTER XXX. THE WALLS FALL DOWN



Helen turned over the scarf, in fingers which had grown suddenly old. It
was of good-quality silk, machine-knitted, and was quite new. There was
a smear of mud on one side and pine-needles were entangled in the mesh
of its fabric.

Conscious of overwhelming horror in store, she shook it out--revealing a
gap in the fringe, at one end--a jagged, irregular tear, as though it
had been bitten.

With a strange cry, she threw it from her. This was the scarf that
Ceridwen's teeth had closed over in her death-agony. It was horrible,
unclean. It had encircled the throat of a murderer.

Like a rocket, shooting up through the darkness of her mind, and
breaking into a cluster of stars, a host of questions splashed and
spattered her brain. How did the scarf get inside Lady Warren's drawer?
Was she hiding it? What connection had she with the crime? Or had
someone else put it there? Was the murderer actually inside the house?

At the thought, she felt already dead. Every cell seemed atrophied,
every fibre withered. She stood locked in temporary paralysis,
muscle-bound, with rigid spine, and blasted faculties.

Yet while she could not see the room, or hear the sound of the wind, or
feel the table under her fingers, she seemed to be looking inwards at a
mental picture.

The Summit was breaking up. The walls had cracked in every direction.
Those thin lines, like the veining of a flash of lightning, were
splintering into fissures. All around her was a tearing and a rending,
as the branches widened, leaving her defenceless to the night.

Suddenly she heard the sound of a sob, and realised that it was her own
voice. In the glass she saw a girl's face--pinched and pallid--staring
at her, from dilated eyes, black with fear. By the aureole of crisping
light-red hair, she knew that girl was herself.

At the sight, a memory stirred in her mind.

"'Ginger for pluck'," she whispered.

She was lying down, waiting for the attack, instead of standing, with
her back to the wall. Nerving herself to examine the scarf, she noticed
that it was only slightly damp.

"It would have been soaked, if it had been lying out in the rain," she
thought. "It must have been brought inside directly after the murder."

The deduction opened up fresh avenues of horror. No one knew the exact
time when Ceridwen was strangled, except that it was round about
twilight. As everyone--except Oates--was at the Summit, any person could
have slipped outside, for a few minutes, unnoticed. From the Professor
downwards, all were under suspicion.

Dr. Parry had warned her that the crime might have been committed by
someone she knew and trusted. The Professor worked at high mental
pressure, while both his son and Rice were periodically moody. Even Dr.
Parry had the same opportunities, and he had visited the blue room.

This wholesale suspicion might even include old Lady Warren. Miss Warren
had dozed in her chair, that evening, at twilight. How had she used her
half-hour of liberty?

"I'm mad," thought Helen. "It can't be everybody. It's nobody here. It's
someone, who got in, from outside."

She shuddered, because, at the back of her mind, persisted that horrible
memory of an open window.

"Girl," called Lady Warren, "what are you doing there?"

"Getting you a clean handkerchief."

Helen was astonished by the coolness of her voice. Under the influence
of fear, she seemed to be a dual personality. A self-possessed stranger
had taken command and was carrying on for her, while the real Helen was
staked amid the ruins of the shattered fortress--bait for a human tiger.

"Have you found anything?" asked Lady Warren.

Helen purposely misunderstood her.

"Yes, a pile," she said, as she hurriedly replaced the scarf. With a
handkerchief in her hand, she approached the bed.

Lady Warren snatched it from her, and threw it on the floor.

"Girl," she whispered hoarsely, "I want you to do something."

"Yes. What is it?"

"Get under the bed."

Helen's eyes fell on the ebony stick, by the bed, with a flash of
understanding. The old woman was wandering again, and she wanted to play
her favourite game of stalking housemaids.

"When I crawl out, will you crack me over the head?" she asked.

"You mustn't come out. You must hide."

The new Helen, who had taken command, thought she grasped the
significance of this move. It was a ruse to hold her in such a position
that she could see practically nothing of the room.

"It's too dusty under the bed," she objected, as she moved cautiously
towards the door.

She had realised the importance of the scarf, as evidence. The Police
should have it in their possession, without delay. She could not
telephone to them, because of the damage--accidental, or otherwise--to
the line; but she could run over to Captain Bean's cottage, and ask him
to take the necessary steps.

Lady Warren began to whimper, like a terrified child.

"Don't leave me, girl. The nurse will come. She's only waiting for you
to go."

Helen hesitated, although she remembered that, in their last encounter,
Lady Warren had triumphed. Yet the balance of power did not remain
equal, even in a jungle fight; today it might be the tiger's turn, but,
tomorrow, the lion's.

She had not yet solved the mystery of Nurse Barker's disappearance. If
she were actually hiding in the house, she might take her revenge.

"I wish I knew the right thing to do," she thought.

"If you leave me," threatened Lady Warren, "I'll scream. And then, he'll
come."

Like the flash of a _fer-de-lance_, Helen whipped round.

"He?" she asked. "Who?"

"I said, 'She'll come.'"

It was obvious that Lady Warren realised her slip, for she bit her lip
and glowered at Helen, like an angry idol.

Helen felt as though she was trying to find the path which threaded a
maze. The old woman knew something which she would not reveal.

It was curious how she remained shackled by ordinary conventions and
considerations, even while one-half of her was pulped with elementary
terror. But, throughout the evening, no single event had been abnormal,
so that, unconsciously, she responded to the laws of civilised life.

The actual murder had taken place outside the Summit, which reduced it
to the level of a newspaper paragraph. The maniac was a kind of
legendary figure, invented by the Press. The most shocking occurrence
was the fact that the housekeeper had got drunk. It was true that both
Nurse Barker and Lady Warren were most unpleasant types; but, in the
course of her experience, Helen had met others who were even more
peculiar. She knew that her own fear was responsible for the grotesque
fancies and suspicions, which shifted through her mind.

Tomorrow would come. She held on to that. She reminded herself that she
had a new job to hold down. If she failed, at a pinch she might find
herself out of work again.

She must not let Lady Warren scream. If the Professor was startled in
his drugged sleep, there might be danger of shock to his brain. It would
be cruel, too, to alarm Miss Warren, while she was imprisoned.

Besides--the whisper stirred, like a snake, in her brain--it might
attract someone else.

As she lingered, Lady Warren's mind apparently wandered.

"There's a storm blowing up," she said. "It's growing dark."

With a sharp pang of alarm, Helen realised that the room seemed to have
become actually dimmer. She rubbed her eyes, but the illusion did not
vanish. The electric-light was gleaming murkily, as through a slight
fog.

Her lips grew stiff, as she wondered if this were a prelude to complete
darkness.

One more feature of the thrill-drama had arrived, with the same
suggestion of cumulative effect.

"It's getting nearer," she thought fearfully.

In spite of her resolution, she shared her doubt with her companion.

"Someone's tampered with the fuses," she whispered.

Lady Warren snorted.

"The batteries are running out, idiot," she snapped.

Helen gratefully grasped at the commonplace explanation. Oates was
responsible for the power-plant, and he was notoriously idle. In her
nervous dread of being alone in the darkness, she had recklessly
switched on nearly every light, without a thought of possible shortage.

"I'd better snap off most of the lights," she said. "Yes," nodded Lady
Warren. "Fetch candles, too. We can't be left in the dark."

Helen looked around her for candles, only to realise that these were
used exclusively for domestic purposes, in the basement. She remembered
seeing bundles in the storeroom, which was next to the larder.

"Do you mind being left?" she asked. "I must go now, before--"

Unable to contemplate a complete extinction, she rushed out of the room
and down the stairs. The hall seemed to flicker, as she passed through,
as though the house were sighing. It was warning her not to delay; in a
panic, lest she should have to grope her way through darkness, she
leaped down the kitchen stairs, like a scared antelope.

Mrs. Oates still slept in her chair, apparently peaceful as a good
child. As she passed, Helen touched her cheek, and found that it was
warm.

"Thank Heaven, there's a special Providence to look after children and
drunks," she thought.

In the passage, a spiral of red wire gleamed through the pear-shaped
hanging bulb, and the light was so dim that Helen held her breath. As
she dashed into the store room, she expected, every minute, to be
plunged in darkness, and the horror of Murder Lane.

Snatching the candles, she rushed back, laying a black trail, as she
snapped off each light. When she reached the hall, she repeated the
operation, in each reception-room. But, while she knew that she was
doing the only sensible thing, she vaguely felt that she was in the grip
of a horrible fatalism, which ordained that she should deliberately
blind the house.

Even as the thought crossed her mind, the oasis of light in which she
lingered was suddenly swallowed up by the surrounding shadows.

The eclipse was but momentary. With the next second, the hall flickered
back again; but the work of demoralisation was done.

The house had given a signal to the night. So intense was her fear of
it, that Helen felt a mad temptation to rush out into the night, and
take her chance in the open.

Captain Bean would give her shelter; his cottage was only a short
distance away, if she cut through the plantation. The trees no longer
held any terror, while she welcomed the thought of the wind and the rain
dashing in her face. The savage landscape had become sanctuary, because
the real menace was inside--hidden somewhere in the house.

She was on the point of unbolting the front door, when she remembered
the helpless inmates of the Summit. Lady Warren, the Professor, and Mrs.
Oates were unable to protect themselves. When the maniac found his prey
had escaped, he might wreak his disappointed fury upon them.

With the feeling that she was going to her doom, she returned to the
landing. After a pause, to recover her nerve, she pushed open the door
of the blue room.

Nothing appeared to have happened in her absence. Lady Warren sat humped
up, in bed, almost swamped in ultramarine shadows.

"You've been gone a long time, girl," she grumbled. "Light the candles."

There were no candle-sticks, so Helen dropped melted wax upon a marble
mantel-shelf, and fixed two candles in position, before the mirror.

"They look like corpse-candles," remarked Lady Warren. "I want more. All
of them."

"No, we must keep some in reserve," Helen told her.

"They'll last our time."

Although. the finality of the old woman's voice sounded ominous, Helen
was aware of a change in her. Her eyes were opened wider, and they
gleamed with satisfaction, as she held up one bony hand.

"Look," she cried. "It doesn't shake. Feel how strong my fingers are."

As Helen crossed to the bed, she forgot her invitation.

"I'm going to sleep," she said. "Don't leave me, girl."

She closed her lids, and very soon her chest rose and fell with the
regularity of a machine, while her breathing was quiet and regular. It
was an extraordinary example of concentration and will-power, for Helen
was sure that she had actually lost consciousness.

"I wonder if I shall see her awake again," she thought.

She felt as though the last link of connection with the finite world had
snapped. In the course of the night, she bad witnessed the temporary
flight of so many spirits, each slipping away, where she could not
follow them.

Although her own lids seemed weighted with lead, she, alone, was awake
in a sleep-bound world. She had to watch.

Suddenly she sprang to her feet, her heart leaping with terror. Someone
was moving in the dressing-room. She distinctly heard the sound of
footsteps, and stealthy movements.

Stealing across the carpet, she opened the door an inch, revealing a
crack of light, blocked by the dark figure of a man.

Even as criminals give themselves up to justice, she knew she could bear
no longer the torture of suspense. Screwed up to a pitch of desperate
courage, she flung open the door.

To her joy and surprise, she saw the Professor standing at the small
bureau. At the sight of the familiar formal figure, everything grew safe
and normal again. The house ceased to sway and gape, as the walls closed
together, in the security of a fortress.

She fought to keep back her tears, for the relief of having rational
company again was almost over-powering. But the Professor's glacial eye
checked her hysteria.

"Oh, Professor," she cried. "I'm so glad you're all right again."

"I am unaware that anything was wrong." The Professor spoke coldly. "I
merely procured some necessary sleep."

Something had annoyed him, for he frowned as he opened another empty
drawer.

"Where is the nurse?" he asked.

"Gone," replied Helen, feeling incapable of lucid explanation.

"Where has she gone?"

"I don't know. Perhaps, she's hiding in the house."

"She--or someone else--has taken something of mine, which I am anxious
to find. But it doesn't matter, for the present."

As though struck by some recollection, he turned round and faced Helen.

"How did you get back to the house?" he inquired.

She did not understand the question.

"When?" she asked.

"When you were coming through the plantation. I heard your footsteps. I
waited...But you never came."

At the words, suddenly--Helen knew.

"You," she said.



CHAPTER XXXI. GOOD HUNTING



Helen knew.

The acid of terror cleared the scum from her mind, so that she felt a
rush of mental activity. Every cell in her brain seemed to be on fire,
as--in a succession of films, reel ing through her mind--she saw the
whole story, in one ghastly moment of realisation.

Professor Warren had strangled those five girls, even as his father,
before him, had murdered two servants. Only Lady Warren knew of the
crimes and had fulfilled the Law. After the death of the second maid,
she had shot her husband.

But, since then, she had grown old, and her brain had greened, so that
she babbled of trees. She believed it to be her repulsive duty to shoot
the son--but she kept putting it off. After each murder, she told
herself that it was the last; and, still, there had been another one.

But with the arrival of a new girl at the house she had smelt danger.
Her suspicions were aroused, and she tried to protect Helen. She wanted
to keep her in her room, where she would be safe.

When she had asked the Professor to light her cigarette, she had looked
into his eyes, and seen the too-familiar glow, which warned her that he
had committed another crime. Yet, in spite of this, she wished to save
him from the Police. She had got up, secretly, and searched his room,
for any incriminating object.

Then--she had found the scarf.

Helen felt a rush of gratitude towards the old woman, even though
nothing mattered now.

"I'm glad I took her part against the nurse," she thought. Yet Nurse
Barker, too, was revealed in a new light--as deserving of pity, rather
than suspicion. The spirit of an intensely feminine woman--craving
admiration--had been encased in an unattractive envelope. Her natural
instincts had been thwarted, and she had soured into a bully.

Helen wondered uneasily what had become of her. At this crisis, she
longed for the aid of the masculine strength and brutality from which
she had shrunk.

She looked at the Professor with incredulous eyes. Outwardly, she saw no
change in him. He appeared grey, bleak, and intellectual--a civilised
product, used to dressing-gongs and finger-bowls. His formal
evening-dress completed the illusion, while his voice had preserved its
frigid academic accent.

She could not fear him--as he was. What she dreaded, in every fibre and
bone, was the transformation to come. She remembered how Dr. Parry had
told her that, in between his fits of mania, the criminal was normal.

She did her best to hold him in this familiar guise.

"What were you looking for?" she asked, forcing her voice to sound
casual.

"A white silk scarf."

The reply drained the blood from her heart.

"I saw it in Lady Warren's drawer," she said quickly. "I'll get it for
you."

For a second a mad hope flared up that she might yet make a dash into
the open. It died instantly, as the Professor shook his head.

"Don't go. Where are the others?"

"Mrs. Oates is drunk, and Miss Warren is locked in her room," replied
Helen.

A faint smile of satisfaction flickered around his lips.

"Good," he said. "At last I have you, alone."

His voice was still so detached and self-controlled that Helen did her
best to keep him interested.

"Did you plan this?" she asked.

"Yes," replied the Professor, "and no. I merely touched the spring which
set the machinery in motion. It has been rather amusing to sit still and
watch others clear the way for me."

Helen remembered the drift of the conversation at dinner. The Professor
had proved his theory that a clever man could direct the actions of his
fellows. He had set himself up above God.

"What do you mean?" she asked, only anxious to stave off the horror
which might lurk behind the next second.

"This." replied the Professor, as though he were demonstrating a thesis.
"I could have got rid of--interference--by exercising my ingenuity. It
presented quite a pretty mental problem. But my knowledge of human
nature prompted a subtler--and simpler--method. To begin with, I tipped
Rice of a dog for sale. When he brought it home, I knew I had several
members of the household tied to the same string."

"Go on, do," gasped Helen, thinking only of the passage of time.

"Need I explain?" The Professor was impatient with her stupidity. "You
saw how it worked out, according to plan. I counted on my sister's
cowardice and aversion to animals, also on each dominant passion
asserting itself."

"It sounds very clever." Helen licked her dry lips as she strove to
think of another question. "And--and I suppose you left the key in the
cellar door, on purpose?"

Again the Professor frowned, in irritation.

"That explains itself," he said. "It is obvious that Mrs. Oates would
find a way to get rid of her husband."

"Yes, of course. Did you count, too, on Nurse Barker running away?"

The Professor made a wry face.

"Ah, there, I confess my plan broke down," he said. "I calculated that
you, in your impulsive folly, would clear her from the board. You let me
down. I had to do my own preliminary work."

He spoke almost like a schoolmaster rebuking an idle pupil.

Helen knew that there was one word she must not mention; yet in her
anxiety to know Nurse Barker's fate, she risked its implication.

"How?" she asked. "Did you hurt her?"

To her relief, the Professor began his explanation calmly.

"Only temporarily. She is gagged and bound, under her bed. She must
remain, as a witness, to testify that she was attacked from behind, by
some unseen assailant, and that I was unconscious, during, during--"

His tone blurred, and his mind seemed to lose grip. To Helen's horror,
she saw that his fingers were beginning to twitch.

"Why did you turn the Police away?" she asked with the desperate feeling
that she was trying to feed a furnace with flimsy sheets of
tissue-paper.

"Because they will pay me a visit, tomorrow." Again the Professor's
fingers curled. "Their time will be wasted. Yet no clever man underrates
the intelligence of others. During two visits to the same house, they
might notice some trifle which I have overlooked. But we are wasting
time."

Helen knew that the moment had come. It could be staved off no longer.
The house was locked, so that she had no hope of rescue. Yet she asked
another question.

"Why do you want to kill me?"

Perhaps, in some unconscious way, the Professor's theory was being
demonstrated, in that tense interlude. Just as it was in Helen's nature,
to explore, his own instinct was to satisfy any wish for knowledge.

"I consider it is my duty," he told her. "I have a scientist's dread of
an ever-increasing population and a shrinking food supply. Superfluous
women should be suppressed."

Helen did not know what she was waiting for, when the end was so
certain.

"Why am I superfluous?" she asked wildly.

"Because you have neither beauty, nor brains, nor any positively useful
quality, to pass on to posterity. You are refuse. Unskilled labour, in
an over-crowded market One extra mouth to feed. So--I am going to kill
you."

"How?" whispered Helen. "Like the others?"

"Yes. It won't hurt you, if you don't resist."

"But you hurt Ceridwen."

"Ceridwen?" He frowned at the recollection. "I was disappointed. I was
waiting for you. She gave me trouble, for I had to carry her over to
Bean. I did not want the Police coming here. An unnecessary fatigue."

Helen stood her ground, as the Professor advanced a pace. She had the
feeling that any sudden action might touch the spring, which unloosed
that ghastly transformation.

He, for his part, seemed in no hurry to begin. He looked around him,
with an air of satisfaction.

"We are quiet here," he said. "I am glad I waited. I was on the point of
doing it, three times, this evening. In the plantation--when you were
asleep, on the stairs--and when you were alone in your room. But I
remembered that there might be interference."

He rubbed his fingers reflectively, as though massaging them.

"This is hereditary," he explained. "When I was a boy I saw my father
cut a girl's throat, with a dinner knife. At the time I was sick, and
filled with actual horror. But, years later, the seed bore fruit."

A green light was glowing behind his eyes. His face was melting into
unfamiliar lines--changing before her eyes. Yet Helen recognised it!
Before her floated the seared face of evil desire.

"Besides," he added, "I like to kill."

They stood, facing each other, only divided by a few yards. Then,
frantic with terror, Helen turned and rushed into his bedroom.

He followed her, his features working and his fingers hooked into claws.

"You can't escape me," he said. "The door is locked."

Filled with the panic of a coursed creature, Helen broke away from him.
She did not know who she was--or where she was--or what she did. All
around her, and within, was noise and confusion--a reeling red mist--a
sound like the crack of a whip.

Suddenly she realised that the end had really come. She was penned in a
corner, while the Professor closed her in. He was so near that she could
almost see her reflection mirrored in his eyes.

But, before he could touch her, his body sagged, though some vital
spring had snapped and he crashed heavily down upon the carpet, and lay
still.

Looking up, Helen saw Lady Warren standing in doorway, holding a
revolver in her hand. She the wore white fleecy jacket of a nice old
lady, decorated with rose ribbons. One gay pink bow dangled at the end
of a spike of grey hair.

As the girl reached her, she collapsed in her arms. The effort of her
shot had been too great. Yet she smiled with the grim satisfaction of a
sportsman who had exterminated vermin, although her last words expressed
a certain regret.

"I've done it...But--fifty years too late."



THE END



</pre>
<p style="margin-left:10%"><img src="/pga-australia.jpg" width="80" height="75" alt=""> </p>

<p><b>This site is full of FREE ebooks - <a href="http://gutenberg.net.au" target="_blank">Project Gutenberg Australia</a></b></p>
<!-- ad goes here -->


