
ï»¿<table width="45%" border ="0">
<tr>
<td bgcolor="#FFE4E1"><font color="#800000" size="5"><p style="text-align:center"><b><a href="http://gutenberg.net.au" target="_blank">Project
Gutenberg Australia</a><br>
</b></font><font color="#800000" size="4"><i>a treasure-trove of literature</i><br>
</font>treasure found hidden with no evidence of ownership</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
<!-- ad goes here -->
<pre>

Title: The Mystery of Room 75
Author: Fred M. White
* A Project Gutenberg Australia eBook *
eBook No.: 1200221.txt
Language: English
Date first posted: January 2012
Date most recently updated: January 2012

This eBook was produced by: Maurie Mulcahy

Project Gutenberg Australia eBooks are created from printed editions
which are in the public domain in Australia, unless a copyright notice
is included. We do NOT keep any eBooks in compliance with a particular
paper edition.

Copyright laws are changing all over the world. Be sure to check the
copyright laws for your country before downloading or redistributing this
file.

This eBook is made available at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg Australia License which may be viewed online at
http://gutenberg.net.au/licence.html

To contact Project Gutenberg Australia go to http://gutenberg.net.au

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Title: The Mystery of Room 75
Author: Fred M. White

*

Author of "Blackmail," "The Cardinal Moth," "Netta," "Craven Fortune,"
&c. Published by Special Arrangement.

*

Published in The Horsham Times, Vic., in serial format commencing
Friday 23 June, 1922.

*


CHAPTER I.--THE "AGONY" COLUMN.


Wendover was feeling just a little good-natured contempt for himself. He
would not have cared to admit that he had been following the girl down
the Strand, but it was more or less the fact, though he had not the
least intention of speaking to her, or molesting her in any way. Paul
Wendover was a University man, and a gentleman, and he had the
healthiest contempt for the class of cad who does that sort of thing.

He was following the slim figure with the tinge of titian red in her
hair in the direction of Fleet-street out of a spirit of mingled
curiosity and admiration--that intangible something where woman is
concerned that always moves man, sooner or later, even though he happens
to be a busy journalist, with his whole soul wrapped up in his
profession. Wendover would have indignantly denied that he had fallen
head over ears in love with a stranger whose features he had not even
seen, except a fleeting glance at a perfect little profile, the vision
of a slim and slender figure, and a mass of hair that seemed to have
caught the sunshine and retained it.

And so Wendover wandered on, keeping the girl in sight on the
off-chance, perhaps, of meeting some casual acquaintance who knew her.
He had heard of such things, and fortune is always on the side of those
seekers after adventure who pursue her steadily. Moreover, it was a case
where Satan finds some mischief still, for idle hands to do, because
Paul was taking more or less of a holiday after a long spell of
strenuous work on the Continent, where he had been investigating certain
anarchists' haunts on behalf of his paper, 'The Daily Herald.' He spoke
half a dozen languages fluently, he was skilled in various disguises,
and he asked for nothing better than to take his life in his hands
occasionally, whenever there was danger to be found. In short, he was
the star man on the 'Herald,' a brilliant descriptive writer, and an
athlete to his finger tips. He had just wound up a successful
investigation and he was back in Fleet-street now, with the intention of
dropping into the 'Herald' office presently to report himself, and, like
a journalistic Oliver Twist, ask for more.

And then, as he strolled along, the dazzling vision with the red-gold
hair had drifted across his path, and, on the idle impulse of the
moment, he was following her, though he would have found it difficult to
explain why. He was interested, he was more interested still when the
girl suddenly started and swerved across the pavement away from a
thick-set man with a big felt hat pulled down over his eyes. Evidently
the girl was startled, and, perhaps, not a little afraid, for she would
have passed on hurriedly if the somewhat forbidding-looking individual
had not detained her.

"Ah, this is an unexpected pleasure," he said, in a foreign accent that
was irritatingly familiar to Wendover, though he could not for the life
of him recollect where he had heard it before. "You haf forgotten me,
Miss--er----"

Paul could not catch the name. He was standing near enough, under the
pretence of gazing into a shop window, to catch snatches of
conversation. He heard the girl whisper a name under her breath, then
she would have hurried on again but the man prevented her. Wendover's
fingers clenched, and the blood began to sing in his ears.

"I am in a hurry," the girl said.

"So! I should not have thought so by the way you were sauntering along.
But why are you angry with me, Zena? This little trouble of yours is no
fault of mine. It was not I who suggested that your father, before he
died, should give everything to the Brotherhood. And perhaps I can help
you, even now, if you will let me. If it is a question of money----"

"You know it is," the girl whispered passionately. "You know that I have
nothing except what I can earn. You know that during my father's last
illness his mind was utterly gone. Otherwise he would never have left me
penniless, except for what I can earn as a dress designer."

"I am sorry," the man said. "But come this way and let us talk it over.
Let us turn into a cafe and have some tea. It is not for my health to
stand here, for I know not who is watching me. Come along."

The girl hesitated for a moment, and then followed her companion through
the doorway of the teashop. Wendover followed in his turn, but the place
was more or less crowded, so that he had to take his place at a table a
little away from the others. From where he sat he could only hear a word
here and there, catch a question now and again, and its muttered reply.
He heard allusions to the Ambassadors' Hotel, that famous cavaranserai
in Piccadilly, and something in connection with a dance that was being
given there by the Associated Arts Club. Then there was a further rush
of customers, and Wendover could hear no more. He waited a little time,
but the two sitting at the table opposite did not seem disposed to move;
then, with an impatient sigh, he told himself that he was a curious
fool, and went more or less reluctantly on his way towards the offices
of 'The Daily Herald.'

The Editor of the 'Herald' was in, and would be very pleased to see Mr.
Wendover at once. The great man shook hands with his contributor, then
closed the door of the office carefully and gave orders down the
telephone that he was not to be disturbed. He took from his desk a scrap
of paper.

"I was very pleased with those last articles of yours," Sutton Deane
said. "They were great. But weren't you just a little reticent?"

"I had to be, my boy," Wendover explained. "As a matter of fact, I
haven't finished yet. It was no very difficult matter to lay that
poisonous scoundrel, John Garcia, by the heels and see him safely shut
up in Geneva. But I could only do it on a trivial charge, and, in the
ordinary course of events, one of the most traitorous scoundrels in
Europe will be free again in a few months, unless I can find the
additional evidence that I am now looking for. That fellow is the head
of a very dangerous gang; he is as false to his friends as he is to his
foes, and the world will be well rid of him if I can get my proofs
before he is released from prison in Geneva. That is why I am over here,
more or less taking a holiday and making inquiries. You see, there's
plenty of time. And if I can do what I think I can, then the 'Herald'
will have the biggest scoop in the history of the paper."

"Yes, that sounds good," Sutton Deane said thoughtfully, "but are you
quite sure you have laid John Garcia by the heels?"

"Of course I have. I put the police in Geneva on his track, and he was
arrested a few days later. Gorzia, of the Swiss Intelligence Department,
told me so, and subsequently I read that Garcia had had six months for
some trivial offence--travelling without a passport or something of that
sort. But why?"

"Well, look at this. It is just a scrap of paper, as you know, merely an
advertisement from our 'Agony' column of last Monday. That is the
original copy handed in downstairs with five shillings for its
insertion. Now, you know how interested I am in criminals and their
ways. If any advertisement out of the common comes in, I always ask for
it to be brought up to me, so this scrap of paper came my way in the
usual course. Read it."

Wendover read the scrap of paper as follows:--

"Brotherhood. Ambassadors' Hotel, Friday. Don't forget the Associated
Arts Club Dance."

There was no more than that, but it touched Wendover's memory. It struck
him as just a little strange that the mysterious couple he had been
watching in the tea-shop had mentioned both the Ambassadors' Hotel and
the Associated Arts Club Ball. That keen journalistic nose of his began
to scent out a paying mystery.

"Well?" he asked. "And what does it mean? I might tell you something
about it myself, but I am not going to do so for the moment. What I am
after just now is information. You didn't refuse that advertisement, I
hope. Don't tell me that the 'Herald' has suddenly become squeamish. It
is no doubt a signal from one set of thieves to another, but if you
become particular about that kind of thing you won't get much revenue
out of your agony column in the future."

"Ah, that's not quite the point," Sutton Deane said. "I don't know why,
but this particular advertisement aroused my curiosity, so I told the
people downstairs to hold it back, and if the man who brought it in came
to complain, as he was pretty certain to do, the people behind the
counter were to pretend to make enquiries and apologise, and send for
me, so I could look at the chap. When he came next day, and kicked up a
fuss, just as I expected, I had my chance to look at him. Of course the
advertisement went in next day, but I gained my point, and had seen the
man who brought it in."

"Well, I hope it was worth all the trouble."

"It was, my boy, it was," Sutton Deane said. "Now I am going to startle
you. Do you remember when we were in Paris two years ago you pointed out
to me in the Cafe de l'Europe a man who, you said, was the biggest
scoundrel on the western continent. And you mentioned his name?"

"I remember, it was John Garcia."

"Just so. Well, the man who brought that advertisement was John Garcia.
There is no mistaking the chap when once you have seen him, and you know
my extraordinary memory for faces."

"But, my dear fellow, it is impossible!"

"Impossible or not, I am sure I am not mistaken. Now, don't you suppose
that the police possibly might have blundered? May not they have in
their their custody another fellow who is acting the part of chief
conspirator, so that the leader himself might be free to knock about
Europe, when all the police are under the impression that he is safe."

Wendover was silent for a moment; for once in his life he was utterly
taken by surprise. Such tidings had happened before, and they might
quite reasonably happen again.

"Well," he said presently, "it may be so. On the other hand, you may
have been deceived. Now, look here, suppose I take this matter up. I
presume there will be no difficulty whatever in getting me a ticket for
this Art Club dance?"

"You mean to go?" the editor asked, eagerly.

"Most assuredly I do," Paul said. "I want to go for more reasons than
one. And, unless I am greatly mistaken, I am on the verge of the biggest
adventure of my life."




CHAPTER II.--The Girl in Red.


It was shortly before eleven o'clock on the evening of the Associated
Arts Club ball that Paul Wendover turned into the Ambassadors' Hotel. It
was a beautiful June evening, peaceful and placid, and, outwardly, at
any rate, there was no sign of coming strife or trouble. In its way the
Associated Arts Club dance was an important social function, though the
great hotel, with its fine suites of rooms and the most competent staff
in Europe, made little or nothing of it. Half-a-dozen big dances had
taken place there without disturbing the thousand or so of guests who
passed every night under that magnificent roof in Piccadilly.

Paul Wendover looked, in his six-feet of splendid manhood and immaculate
evening dress, a typical, well-groomed Englishman, who was out for an
evening of simple pleasure. He strolled through the reception rooms
towards the ballroom with the air of a man who has nothing on his mind,
and who is bent entirely on looking for casual acquaintances. And
certainly, in the ordinary way, the Associated Arts Club dance promised
to be amusing. To begin with, it was emphatically a Bohemian function of
the most brilliant kind, and everybody connected with literature and the
stage would probably be present. Just for a moment Wendover stood there,
regarding the ebb and flow of beautifully-dressed women and well-known
men, and then he thrilled and stiffened to his fingertips as his eye
encountered a slim figure in scarlet--the figure of a tall, graceful
girl, brilliantly fair and dazzling, her head crowned with great masses
of orange-red hair, twisted like a coronet about her brows.

It was the girl that Wendover had seen in Fleet-street that afternoon.
He knew that he could not possibly be mistaken. And yet there was
nothing about her now to suggest a girl who is struggling to keep her
head above the social waters. She seemed to stand out from the rest of
the crowd like a thing apart. It wasn't altogether that she was more
outstandingly beautiful than many other exquisitely-dressed women there,
but there was about her some intangible charm and distinction that
seemed to lift her, in Wendover's eyes at least, far and away above the
rest of them.

To begin with, it seemed to him that she looked as no Englishwoman could
have done. And she was all the more attractive because the man she was
with was not in the least distinguished. He was just an ordinary
Englishman, sandy-haired and freckled, a man with whom, as a matter of
fact, he had been at school.

But Wendover had no eyes just then for Sir Peter Cavendish; he was
looking at the girl to the exclusion of everything else. She seemed to
float round the room with the nameless grace and abandon of a beautiful
scarlet butterfly. And, against the deep red of her dress, and the
dazzling whiteness of her arms and neck, that marvellous hair of hers
stood out like a dart of flame. Then, presently, the music ceased, and
the girl and her partner went back to their seats. Wendover saw his
acquaintance rise presently, and wander away in the direction of the
smoking-room. He stopped just for a moment as Wendover accosted him.

"Who is the Lady in Scarlet?" he asked, carelessly. "Not English, I feel
sure."

"Oh, no," Cavendish replied. "French, I think. Very attractive, but not
quite my style. I was introduced to her by Vera Bentley, of the
Frivolity, so, of course, I had to ask her for a dance. Like a good many
other striking looking girls, she is dull, with little to say for
herself."

Wendover elevated his eyebrows sardonically. Cavendish was by no means
intellectual, and his limits were bounded by horses and golf clubs.
Wendover knew he was mistaken. He could read a fine intelligence and a
beautiful intellect in that lovely face and those dark, liquid eyes.
Still, it was futile to argue the matter out with a man like Cavendish.

"You surprise me," he said. "But one never can tell. By the way, what is
the lady's name?"

"Zena Corroda, the daughter of the scientific johnny who made lots of
money out of scientific experiments. One of those birds who are born to
put the world right. Down on chaps with money, and all that. They say
that the old cove was a bit of an anarchist in his way."

Wendover started slightly. He was on the track of the mystery now, for
the things that Cavendish spoke of vaguely were part of a big, open book
to him. He was seeing his way more or less clearly into the heart of
things. He made some excuse for shaking his loquacious acquaintance off,
and made his way back into the ballroom. As a matter of fact, he was
more startled and uneasily interested than he was prepared to admit. For
he wanted to help the girl with the red hair, the girl who stood on the
threshold of a great danger. The spirit of adventure was in his blood
now, but he had something to think of besides the interests of his
paper.

He was going through it all now, as he stood there nodding and smiling
to passing acquaintances, but with his mind far away. He was uneasy and
disturbed too, as he always was till he had got hold of the right
thread, and then he would plunge into the heart of the danger with a
tranquil mind and an utter disregard for his own safety.

And that the girl was in some bitter trouble he felt certain. She was
seated all alone now, an utter stranger in that brilliant, frivolous,
dazzling crowd, a thing apart from all the rest, and almost pathetically
lonely. She sat there for some time, utterly unconscious of the fact
that she was being watched, and perhaps forgetful that she was there at
all, and then she looked up presently, and, like a flash, the settled
melancholy in her eyes changed to abject terror.

She half started from her seat, then dropped back into it again, with
pallid cheeks and parted lips, and with her hand pressed to her heart,
as if some mortal pain were there. It was only for a second or two, and
then she recovered herself.

But, in that instant it seemed to Wendover that he had discovered the
source of the trouble. He could see a tall, thin man, clean shaven and
hawk-looking, making his way round the ballroom in the direction of one
of the palm-lined corridors, where a series of dimly-lighted alcoves had
been arranged for the use of such of the guests as wanted to sit out a
dance or two. And no sooner had the man with the hawk-like face and
sinister eyes vanished down the corridor than the girl rose as if
impelled by some force, and followed him.

A minute later Wendover followed in his turn. He had no excuse for doing
this, he told himself; it was sheer impertinent curiosity on his part,
but he rose and went. It was just at the beginning of the corridor that
he overtook the girl.

"Excuse me," he said, "but may I speak to you for a moment; Are you not
Miss Zena Corroda?"

The girl turned a startled face upon him.

"Oh, yes," she said, "but please do not detain me. There is someone, a
gentleman, who has just gone along here, that I want to speak to at
once. I have a message for him which must not be delayed."

"You think he is in danger then?" Wendover asked coolly.

"Oh, yes, yes. But how do you know that? Who are you that dares to stop
me in this fashion?"

"I am your friend, I think," Paul said quietly. "In fact I know I am.
Don't think me presumptuous, but I am sure you are in trouble, and I
want to help you. Have you ever heard your father speak of Mr. Paul
Wendover?"

"The name seems familiar," the girl said. "I think there was a
journalist of that name----"

"Yes, that's right," Wendover said eagerly, "I am the man. I came on
behalf of my paper to interview your father in Berlin. You would
probably have been a girl at school at that time. And now, Miss
Corroda----"

The girl looked about her like some beautiful, hunted creature, who
seeks an avenue of escape.

"Oh, please don't keep me, please," she implored. "God knows I want a
friend, for I am all alone in the world, and I feel you are sincere in
what you say, for you look like an English gentleman. If you have
anything more to say, will you please stay here for two or three
minutes, and I will come back to you. But, please let me go now."

Wendover drew back with a muttered apology. So far it seemed to him that
he was gaining ground, and, at any rate, the girl had promised to
return. He waited there, in the empty corridor for the best part of ten
minutes, waited there quite alone, till he began to grow anxious and
uneasy, and then, moved by some impulse that he made no effort to
restrain, he strolled down the corridor, turning his eager gaze into the
various little palm-lined alcoves, most of which were empty with the
lights turned on. It was as quiet and solitary there as if it had been
miles from Piccadilly, and no sound to break the silence but the distant
murmur of the band.

There, at the far end of the corridor, in one of the tiny retreats,
dimly lighted by a solitary lamp, it seemed to Wendover that he could
see a smudge of scarlet with a suggestion of dazzling white here and
there, bending over some blurred object that lay hidden behind a clump
of ferns. There was something so sinister about the whole thing that
Wendover rushed in and stood there, with startled eyes.

For there, behind that screen of greenery, lay the dead body of a man in
evening dress. He lay there with his eyes turned upwards, lay there with
a cruel gash in the centre of his dazzling expanse of shirt front, on
which the crimson stain stood out vividly. And standing over him, frozen
with horror, was the girl in the red dress.

"You cannot believe it," she whispered. "You cannot believe that
I--I----"

"Of course not," Wendover said. "Such a thought is impossible. But you
know who the man is?"

"Yes. It's Detmar--Leo Detmar. The man I came here to warn all too
late."

From the distance came the dreamy music of the band, and between those
two and the dim alcove lay the body of the murdered man. Wendover was
the first to recover himself.

"I must get you away from this," he whispered.




CHAPTER III.--"A Friend in Need."


A glorious gratitude swam into Zena's eyes.

"Then you are going to help me?" she whispered.

"Of course I am," replied Wendover. "What could the average man do less?
I find you here in bitter distress, and there is nothing else for me to
do. Oh, you need not look at me like that. Do you suppose, for a moment,
that I can associate you with a deed of violence that has resulted in
the death of the man who lies there? Of course not. No one in his senses
could. But then you know who he is."

The girl seemed to hesitate for a moment, not that there was any sign of
hesitation or confusion about her. She was terribly moved and shaken in
every limb, but, withal, she displayed a quiet courage that compelled
Wendover's admiration. And then the incongruity of the scene forced
itself upon him. At any moment they might be discovered by some passing
reveller, at any moment some loving couple might intrude upon their
privacy. And then, of course, awkward questions might be asked, and the
beautiful woman in the red dress find herself in a position of deadly
peril.

Wendover already knew that she had not a friend in the world, knew that
she depended upon her personal endeavours for her daily bread. And yet,
here she was in this exclusive gathering, beautifully dressed and
looking as if she and poverty had never even been nodding acquaintances.
No doubt she would be able to explain presently, for Wendover was
sufficiently a man of the world not to judge by outward appearances.

"You must come away," he said hurriedly. "You must come with me back to
the ballroom, anywhere away from here, for it seems to me that it would
spoil everything now if a lot of awkward questions were asked, and,
besides, you have nothing whatever to do with this crime. Come with me,
and let us go away from it as far as possible."

They stepped out into the corridor side by side, and Wendover noted with
a sigh of relief that the place was as quiet and deserted still as it
had been a quarter of an hour before. It was quite evident to him that
no one had seen Zena Corroda enter the alcove, and his movements had
been unmarked by anyone. He drew the girl's shaking arm through his, and
led her back to the lights and the music, and the chatter of the
frivolous crowd with a feeling that all this was a dream, and that he
would wake from it presently.

Sooner or later the body lying in the alcove would be discovered, but
that was no reason why he or she should be identified with it. Indeed,
such a course would go a long way to hinder him, and thwart the
discovery of the crime and rascality that he was already tracking down.
And the girl appealed to him. That wondrous and pathetic beauty of hers
touched him as he had never been touched before. He was more than half
in love with Zena Corroda already, without knowing it.

He seated her in the quietest corner of the ballroom he could find, and
insisted that she should take a glass of champagne. He watched the color
creeping back into the olive-tinted cheeks, and the frightened, haunted
fear dying out of those dark eyes of hers.

"You are indeed a friend," she whispered.

"Until death," Wendover said, with a tinge of passion in his voice. "I
want you to believe that there is nothing in the world I would not do
for you. And perhaps a little later on you may like to confide in me."

"Then you implicitly trust me?" Zena asked.

"Absolutely and implicitly," Wendover said. "Still, this is a serious
business, and I have more than an impression that you know something
about it. I am more than certain that you do. When the man who lies dead
yonder passed you just now in the ballroom, I was watching you. I have
been watching you more or less, all the afternoon. I saw you in
Fleet-street. I saw that man stop you, and I followed you into the tea
shop. Don't ask me why, Miss Corroda, because I cannot tell you. I
really don't know. Why does a man who takes only a general interest in
women suddenly find himself arrested by a face in the crowd? Why does a
man find himself irresistibly attracted towards a woman he has never
spoken to? But these problems can wait. When the dead man passed you you
turned pale, and your eyes were full of trouble. Then you followed him,
to warn him, probably."

"Oh, I did," Zena said. "The man was in great danger, how great a peril
you have seen for yourself. More than that I cannot tell you at
present."

"Oh, I think you can. I think you must. And there was another man, too,
who followed directly afterwards, another man who went down the
corridor, and who either turned into one of those alcoves or into one of
the rooms at the end of the corridor. Did you see him?"

"No," Zena explained, "but I know that he must have been there. It was
against him that I went to warn the man who is dead. And the other man,
who was responsible for the crime, no doubt, disappeared in the way you
have suggested. And now, Mr. Wendover, I am going to tell you something.
Because you are my friend, and because my heart tells me that I can
trust you. Beyond that locked door at the end of the corridor lies the
whole secret. Beyond that door is the fortune that my father made, and
which would have been mine had he been left to himself. When I came here
to-night, partly with the intention of enjoying myself, I had forgotten
for the moment, that the Brotherhood meets in this hotel once a year to
discuss the future, after supping together. It was my father who founded
the Brotherhood, and all that remains of them now are John Garcia, Leon
de Vince, Nikolo Petroff, and Leo Detmar, the man who lies in the
corridor there, stabbed to the heart, and two others whose names I
forget. As I told you just now it had escaped my recollection for the
moment that the Brotherhood meet to hold their annual supper and
conference in this hotel. You must understand that my father has been
dead over a year now, and these people, for the most part, ignore my
existence. It is quite clear to me that Detmar was lured here and
murdered in that alcove by one of his own colleagues----"

"Murdered by John Garcia, you mean," Wendover suggested.

Once more the look of terror crept into the girl's eyes.

"What do you know of him?" she whispered.

Wendover waved the suggestion aside. There came back to his mind the
recollection of what Sutton Deane had told him and the mysterious
advertisement in the 'Agony' column of the 'Herald.' it was quite clear
to his mind now that some strange mistake had been made by the police,
and that John Garcia was at large. Moreover, he had lured his victim
here and had murdered him with matchless audacity in the midst of the
dance. It was a crime worthy of the man called John Garcia.

"It matters little for the moment what I know about him," Wendover said;
"the question is--where is he now."

"In room 75," Zena said. "He had a latchkey to that room, and so have
the others."

"But why should he destroy his friend?"

"Why does that type of man always commit a crime?" Zena demanded. "For
money, of course. These people call themselves patriots, they profess to
wage war on capitalists, but what they all want is their share of the
hundred thousand pounds which form the funds of the Brotherhood. And
those funds are locked in that safe, in room No. 75. Some day all but
one of those men will be dead, or hanged, and the survivor will be rich
beyond his wildest dreams. My father was a visionary and an enthusiast,
and the dupe of these men. That's why he left all his money to the
Brotherhood, and why I am compelled to earn my daily bread. Oh, if I
only had someone bold and resolute to help me!"

"You have," Wendover cried. "I will help you. I will do anything to help
you, and all the more so because I myself am on the track of those
scoundrels. I have been shadowing them for months. But this is a phase
of their rascality that I had not contemplated. You see, Miss Corroda, I
am a journalist, attached to the 'Daily Herald,' and adventure is the
breath of life to me. It is incidental, perhaps, but there is no
occasion for me to work for my daily bread, though I love the life for
its own sake. And I am going to help you, because I want to, and because
I want to rid the world of these poisonous scoundrels, and, if I can
help you in the meantime, it would only add zest to my success. Now,
perhaps, you will honor me with your confidence."

Zena smiled gratefully into Wendover's eyes as she produced from the
folds of her dress a black silk mask, edged with gold filigree, and the
half of a broken circular gold disc stamped with the figure 3. The gold
disc had been broken across the centre, so that only half of it
remained. And these things the girl handed over to the puzzled Wendover.

At the same time there was a third object that Zena laid on Wendover's
palm, which, for the moment he had overlooked--a small latchkey,
apparently of the Yale pattern, though a little longer in the wards than
is usually the case. But, for the moment, this did not hold the same
fascination as the broken gold disc, with its section of a figure 3.
Apparently the disc had been fractured across the middle, as if some
strong hand had bent it backwards and forwards until it was broken.

"Don't you think you had better begin at the beginning and tell me the
whole story over," he suggested. "At present these mysterious objects
convey nothing to me. All I can see is that by great good fortune I can
help you in more ways than one. As I told you just now, I have been
tracking this infamous Brotherhood half over Europe during the last six
months on behalf of my paper, and now I am going to track them on your
behalf as well. I am going to lay them by the heels, and I am going to
recover for you the money which is justly yours, and of which you have
been robbed. Mind you, I am no child at the game. I am a strong man,
with a love of adventure, and I am alive to all the cunning and
chicanery of these cosmopolitan scoundrels. And, whatever happens, I am
always and ever your friend."

Zena's dark eyes were full of gratitude.

"Then, my friend, I will tell you," she whispered. "There is not much
time, but I will do my best."




CHAPTER IV. Zena's Story.


She bent towards Wendover, till he could catch the subtle fragrance of
her, and the elusive perfume of her hair. There was entire trust and
confidence in those luminous eyes of hers, a confidence that touched
Wendover and stirred him as he had never been stirred before. He half
inclined towards her, with an air of protection that she, in her
loneliness, found infinitely sweet and soothing.

"You are very, very good to me," she murmured, "to me, a stranger. I
wonder why?"

"Because you are young and beautiful and lonely," Wendover whispered
passionately. "Because I am a man, and you appeal to me for protection.
And most of all, perhaps, because you are you. Zena, do you know how
lovely you are?"

The red blood flamed into the girl's cheeks.

"I wonder if you know how good you are to me," she said. "Oh, thank God.
I have at last found a friend."

"Go on," Wendover said. "Go on."

"Well, it's like this. You have met my father, and you must know that he
was both a scientist and a dreamer. More by good fortune than anything
else he made a good deal of money over an invention of his. Then he got
caught up in that dreadful Brotherhood. It was indeed an evil day for
him when he first came under the influence of John Garcia. I always
mistrusted that man myself. I hated that bald head and strong, oily face
of his. I hated his manner, and the furtive way he looked at one. But he
talked well, and he posed as the friend of mankind, and the inveterate
foe of the oppressor in all walks of life. And that is how the war
between the Brotherhood and the Big Trusts began. It was with my
father's money that that last corner in wheat was broken. But I am sure
that Garcia was always a traitor."

"Always," Wendover said, "but go on."

"He was one of the few men amongst the Brotherhood that I knew by sight.
The rest of them had assumed names, and whenever they meet, they are
always masked. There came a time when my father realised all his money
and converted it into notes and gold. That money was placed in the safe
in this hotel, and locked, by means of a time lock, which only opens
automatically at a certain moment, once a year. No one else could open
it, because, when once the combination has been arranged, the safe must
remain secure for a given period, and that period is midnight of this
very day, in every June. The room itself is always locked, and has a
limited number of keys, one of which is in the hands of each of the
Brotherhood. And that is one of the keys I have just given you. Once a
year, the council meets here, to discuss its policy for the coming
twelve months. On these occasions they allot certain funds for certain
purposes, and these are distributed amongst various members of the
council. But, roughly speaking, there is a hundred thousand pounds in
the safe, but where it will be after midnight when the strong room opens
automatically I cannot say. It may be all gone."

"At any rate, it is safe for the moment," Wendover suggested. "Now, I
was under the impression that the man called John Garcia was safely
locked up in Geneva. Things have happened during the last few hours that
make me feel that I am not justified in that belief. I think now that
Garcia managed to substitute someone for himself, and, that being so, he
is enjoying a freedom from police supervision that he has not known for
years. It was I who got him locked up, and I hoped, before he came out
again, that I should be able to lay before the authorities such
information as would lead to the scoundrel being hanged. But,
apparently, he has baffled me, and eluded the police at the same time."

"Have you ever met the man?" Zena asked.

"Only once," Wendover explained, "and then in a bad light. I understand
he is wonderful at disguises, but I think if I heard him speak I should
know him again. By the way, what is the fellow really like!"

"He is short and stout and red of face, and he has not a hair on his
head," Zena explained. "Once seen he can never be mistaken. But, surely,
you are wrong in saying that the man is still in gaol, because, as a
matter of fact, John Garcia was with me in the tea shop this afternoon."

"Really," Wendover exclaimed. "Now, you know, I took particular note of
that man. So far as I know I have never seen him before, though his
voice struck me as being familiar. When I was spying on you this
afternoon I caught the sound of the words that he said, and I knew that
I had heard that voice before. I was worried, because I could not couple
it with any particular individual. But it did not matter much, except
that forewarned is forearmed. With this knowledge I shall be still more
useful to you."

"Then you are going on?" Zena asked. "You are not afraid, even of John
Garcia."

"Without boasting, I don't think I'm afraid of any man," Wendover said.
"My dear Zena, there is nothing I wouldn't do for you. It seems to me
that, as you have placed in my hands the means of getting inside that
chamber and attending a meeting of the Brotherhood, I should be a poor
sort of creature if I did not avail myself of it. I have taken greater
risks than that. Oh, I shall be safe enough. They would never dare to
lay violent hands upon me, under the roof of the Ambassadors' Hotel."

But Zena was not listening. She was watching a man in evening dress,
making his way through the crowd in the direction of the corridor. She
gripped Wendover by the arm.

"Look," she whispered, "there is Garcia himself."

"You are quite sure of that?" Wendover asked.

"Oh, I cannot be mistaken, I know the man so well. That is John Garcia,
beyond a doubt. He must have escaped from prison, as you suggested, or
he has cleverly contrived for the police to arrest somebody else."

"I begin to see it," Wendover said. "It becomes as plain as daylight to
me. By some means or another Garcia discovered his danger, and induced
that unfortunate Leo Detmar to impersonate him. Then, when Garcia was
safely out of Switzerland, Detmar obtained his release. He was on his
way here to-night to attend the meeting of the Brotherhood, and was, no
doubt, foully murdered in the alcove by the very man whom he had served
so well. He was lured into the alcove by means of an advertisement in
the 'Agony' column of my own paper. I only found that out by accident
this afternoon. Then, after the crime was committed, Garcia hid himself
in the locked council chamber for a few moments, and now he has come out
again for some purpose of his own. Yes, the more I think of it, the more
sure I am of my facts. Detmar is out of the way now, his disappearance
will convey nothing to the rest of the Brotherhood, and Garcia will be
here to-night, masked and unrecognisable, and probably tell the
Brotherhood that he is representing Garcia, and that the latter is still
in gaol. You can see for yourself how this course will help that
murderous scoundrel to get all that money into his own hands."

"How wonderfully clever you are," Zena said. "But you may never leave
that council chamber alive. You see, that room belongs to these people.
They pay a big rent for it, and it cannot be used by anybody else. The
door fastens with a patent lock, and there are only so many keys, all of
which are in the hands of the Brotherhood. I believe the manager of the
hotel has one, but it is merely so that the room can be cleaned out from
time to time, and a supper laid once a year. It is a cold supper they
have, a luxurious meal with the choicest wines, but no waiters are
present. The hotel people regard the Brotherhood as a set of eccentric
millionaires, who meet once a year to celebrate some particular
occasion, and, as they pay well, always in advance, no questions are
asked."

"Oh, I quite understand that," Wendover said. "London is the only place
in the world where people can do those kind of things. But never mind
that. You have given me all I need; but what about these identity discs!
I suppose the other halves are somewhere."

"In the safe," Zena explained. "A measure of precaution. If anybody
tries to get into the council chamber with a forged disc, it will be
compared with the other half, and if the ragged edges do not fit, the
imposter would be detected at once. Do you know that I took those things
you have from Detmar's dead body in the vain hope that I might find some
friend to use them for me. I tremble to think how I could have done it."

"It was a brave thing to do," Wendover said. "And now, for your dear
sake----"

Zena held out her hands impulsively. The tears were trembling on her
lashes now, like twin diamonds, her whole heart was in her face.

"Dear little girl," Wendover whispered, "wish me good luck. It only
wants a few minutes to midnight, and I must be up and doing. Now, take
your courage in both hands, and behave as if nothing had happened. I
suppose you have at least one friend here to-night."

"Just one," Zena replied, "the actress friend who lent me this dress,
and who is here somewhere."

"Very well then, seek her out, make her find you a partner or two, try
and behave as if you had nothing on your mind. I will be back as soon as
I can."

As Wendover spoke, a big clock in the neighbourhood struck the hour of
midnight. He jumped hastily to his feet, and strode away in the
direction of the corridor, leaving Zena seated there, a prey to a
thousand fears.

But, from that moment, Wendover had resolutely put her out of his mind.
With his courage strung to the highest pitch he pushed his way along
till he came to room No. 75.

The well-oiled lock gave instantly to the key, and a moment later, after
he had donned his mask, and felt the gold disc safely in his pocket, he
passed through an ante-room, into the council chamber itself.

As he did so, the big marble clock on the mantelpiece struck twelve. The
great adventure had commenced.




CHAPTER V. The Time Lock.


Wendover glanced about him casually. His first care was to convey the
impression that this was by no means the first time that he had been
present in the Council Chamber.

He saw a large, well-lighted room, elaborately and artistically
furnished, in the centre of which was an oval table set out with supper
for apparently half a dozen people. It was an extravagant cold repast,
and on a sideboard in one corner of the room stood a number of bottles
capped with gold foil. To the left of the draped and curtained window
was a writing table, and over this, let into the wall, the door of a
safe that swung open, as if pulled back by unseen hands, at the very
instant that the clock on the mantelpiece finished striking twelve.
There was something almost uncanny, almost forbidding in that quiet
movement.

There were five men in the room besides Wendover, each of them wearing a
similar gold-fringed mask to the one that covered the daring
adventurer's face. No one took the slightest notice of him, no one bowed
as he took his place, indeed, it seemed as if his intrusion had been
more or less expected. He was face to face now, and well he knew it,
with a handful of the most desperate criminals in Europe, each of which
would have slit his throat without the slightest hesitation if only he
made one false step. But he knew that his credentials were good, he had
the gold disc in his pocket, and his mask was in perfect order. Then,
cautiously, but with an air of careless indifference, he began to take
stock of his companions. He saw a little man, with a dark olive
complexion and closely trimmed beard, and yet another one, tall and
swarthy, and spare to leanness. There were two others, one slender, yet
wiry looking, with hair of a peculiar flaming red, with a touch of
orange in it, and the last man short and thickset with a hideous twist
in his lower lip, that a seemed to throb as if it had a pulse in it.
These were details which Wendover's trained eye and instinct absorbed
and noticed almost mechanically. He knew, only too well, that these
little signs and portents would interest him later on.

But it was the fifth man who attracted Wendover's particular
attention--a man short, and inclined to be fat, and absolutely bald,
with clean shaven lips which were thick and sensual, and hard and cruel
at the same time. A blunt, pugnacious nose was scarcely concealed by the
mask behind which Wendover could discern a pair of eyes, dull and
lifeless, and at the same time menacing as those of a snake. The mask
disguise was enough for all practical purposes, but those dreadful lips
were not lost upon Wendover, and he knew now that he would recognise the
man before him whenever they met in the future, and under all
conditions. And that his very existence depended upon this remembrance.
Wendover knew as if the man had risen from his seat and had threatened
him by name. He knew that here was the man John Garcia, the man whom he
had truly believed to be a prisoner in Geneva. But that had been all a
mistake of course. In the light of recent information, gained only a few
yards away there in the ball-room, Wendover had learnt, by a piece of
pure good fortune, that his plans had miscarried. Doubtless John Garcia
had obtained early tidings of his danger, and, secure in the knowledge
that he was not known by sight to the Geneva police, had cajoled the
hapless Detmar into impersonating him for the moment.

The confirmation of this inspired Wendover, and spurred him on to the
effort that lay before him. He had a healthy respect for this chief foe
of his, and, indeed, for every man who sat round the table. For they
were all after one thing. They called themselves anarchists, and the foe
of the oppressor in every land, but every one of them, seated there,
behind his black mask, turned a restless glance every now and again in
the direction of the open safe. It was the contents of the safe they
were after. For the sake of its precious contents, they were prepared to
commit any crime under the sun, and they were prepared to sacrifice one
another, and all the time John Garcia was sitting there, with murder in
his heart, deliberately planning the destruction of his colleagues. One
by one he would strike them down, as he had struck Detmar down an hour
or so ago, with an unparalleled audacity that stamped him as a master
criminal. And it was amongst those that Wendover had come, taking his
life in his hands, fighting for a great stake in a good cause, for a
pure and beautiful girl and the fortune that was undoubtedly hers.

And, even as he stood there, conscious of his danger, he had his dreams.
He knew that he had challenged the powers of darkness for something more
than pure chivalry. He was stretching out his strong, right arm for the
lifelong happiness and prosperity both of Zena Corroda and himself. And
it was characteristic of the man that he had already made up his mind as
to the future. It would be no fault of his if he did not win something
infinitely more precious than the tempting vein of wealth behind that
open door.

It was John Garcia who spoke first, though, naturally, he did not speak
in his private capacity, nor, indeed, were the Brotherhood aware of the
real identity of the individual who addressed them. This was the reason
for the masks--a precaution against treachery from one man to another.
Garcia spoke in a hard, rasping voice, not much above a whisper, that
carried to the farthest corner of the room.

"I am here with a message," he said. "I come here, representing the man
who is known to you all by name as John Garcia, our accredited leader.
So far, no one has seen him in the flesh, at least, under his proper
name, and only about two of you, if as many, have the privilege of
knowing him. Now, Garcia has been betrayed into the hands of our enemies
by someone outside the Brotherhood. Just for the moment it matters
nothing who it is who has been guilty of this thing. Garcia will know,
in due course, how to punish the author of this black treachery."

A murmur of approval ran all round the room.

"Sufficient for the moment it is that your great leader lies in a
foreign gaol," the speaker went on impressively. "But not for long, not
for long. And, once he is free, he will know when and where to strike.
Let it be assumed that I am here, acting on his behalf. Believe me, my
friends, when I tell you that the proofs of this black treachery on the
part of one that your leader never harmed, lie within the sealed
envelope that I hold in my hand."

Wendover held his breath for a moment. There was an unexpected
development that he had not anticipated. What if his secret had been
disclosed, what if the president of the Brotherhood knew that the man
who had been tracking him down sat there, helpless and unarmed, within a
yard of vengeance? And if this was so, then the great adventure was
over, almost before it had begun. And yet it seemed impossible that
Garcia should know, indeed, how could he, when the gold disc and the
mask had only passed into Wendover's possession half-an-hour ago? He
bent over the table with assumed indifference, yet with every muscle
tense and rigid, and with every fibre of his being ready for the fray.

"Open it," the man with the orange hair said. The President shook his
head, and, as he did so, Wendover knew that the crisis was passed.

"Not to-night," the leader replied. "That is not the wish of the man
whom we regard as our head. My instructions are that this envelope
should be deposited in the safe, behind those locked doors, for another
twelve months."

Wendover was breathing freely now, he breathed more freely still as he
saw Garcia place the envelope in the safe.

"Come, comrades," he said, "let us go through the form of proving our
right to be here."

So saying, he took from his pocket the section of his own gold disc, and
the other men immediately followed his example. Wendover's precious
fragment lay on the table, almost as soon as the rest. No sooner were
they displayed than, from the interior of the safe, Garcia produced
their corresponding halves. Then he lifted the discs, one by one, and
gravely proceeded to fit them to the sections that he had taken from the
safe, so that, presently, what appeared to be six complete coins lay
before him. This being done, he handed back to each man his token of
identity with the air of one who is thoroughly satisfied with his task.

"Before I close the safe for another year," he said, "before I set the
combination which bars that lock for another twelve months, in such a
way that it cannot open in the meantime, I wish to ask the usual
questions. Is there any member of the Brotherhood present who is in need
of funds to complete the peculiar task upon which he is engaged? We have
one or two big operations in progress, and it may be that all of you are
fettered by the need of money."

"I am, for one," the tall man with the black moustache said. "I need a
thousand pounds. That strike in the Westphalian coalfields has not been
quite as successful as I anticipated, and further funds are needed."

"Is it your wish, brothers," Garcia asked, "that our friend should have
this money? Nikolo Petroff, I think."

The tall man bowed gravely. No hands were upraised in opposition, and
the money and notes were handed over to the tall man, who placed them in
his pocket. Then another, who was spoken of as Leon de Vince, proffered
a suggestion, and he, in his turn, was duly accommodated. Wendover made
a careful note of these names for future use. Then, nothing more being
asked for, the leader commenced to arrange the numbers on the lock. A
moment later the door of the safe would be closed again and, for a
further twelve months, the treasure lying there would be safe from
further depredations. But in twelve months much can happen. If fortune
were on his side, Wendover might return a year hence, and restore the
money to its rightful owner. As he thought of this, his spirit rose.

As if on the spur of the moment. Garcia turned to Paul and spoke. There
was a sneer in his voice, and a glitter in his eyes, a hard and cruel
gleam.

"Have you no request to make?" he demanded. "Is your particular task
going so well that you have no occasion to make a call upon our common
fund?"




CHAPTER VI.--Dangerous Ground.


"I have no occasion to complain," Wendover said coldly. "I am thinking
of the daughter of the man who founded the League, who, I understand, is
left absolutely penniless. I propose, sir, that you seek this girl out,
and hand her at least 500. It is only fair."

As Wendover spoke he saw, at a glance, that this proposal did not
commend itself to the Brotherhood, though it seemed to him that the man
with the orange-colored hair nodded approval, and the man with the
twisted mouth smiled.

"Perhaps you know the lady?" Garcia sneered. "Perhaps you would like to
convey the money to her yourself."

"I should," Wendover said coolly. "In a way, I do know her, and I am
aware of her dire need. I will put it to the vote, if necessary."

The man who posed as Detmar hesitated for a moment. Then he produced a
packet from the safe, and threw it contemptuously across the table in
Paul's direction.

"Better count if for yourself," he muttered.

A moment later Wendover nodded, and a second after that the safe door
crashed to with a bang, locked and barred, and impervious, except to the
hand of an expert, and for the next twelve months. Paul knew that the
fortune was safe. At any rate, twelve long precious months lay before
him.

Without another word Garcia moved in the direction of the supper table,
and there, under the rays of the electric light, followed the most
remarkable spectacle that Paul had ever witnessed during the whole of
his connexion with the 'Daily Herald.' It was strange to sit there
gazing at those other masks, to sit there in absolute silence, and no
word was spoken till the repast was finished, and the last bottle of
choice champagne stood empty upon the table. Then the conversation
became more general, though it was entirely restricted to commonplace
discussions, as if each man mistrusted his colleague, and feared to say
too much.

But it was not time lost, so far as Wendover was concerned. With that
trained journalistic eye of his, he was taking in every little
peculiarity and mannerism of his companions. He knew, at any rate, the
names to which they answered, and the names by which, no doubt, they
were known to the world generally, and that he would see most of them
again, Paul did not doubt.

He had them all labelled and catalogued presently in his brain, and now
he was more or less free to let his mind wander. Ever and again, from
time to time, the sounds of mirth and laughter in the ballroom, and the
strains of the band penetrated beyond the locked door, but not one of
the men seated round the table appeared to heed it, or to be struck by
the contrast between themselves and the mirth and gaiety going on within
a few yards of where they were seated. The clock on the mantelpiece
struck the hour of one before Garcia suddenly rose and advanced towards
the door.

"Good-night, comrades," he cried, "and au revoir till this day twelve
months. Great events will happen in that time, and may your efforts be
crowned with success. I go first, as usual, and you follow, one by one,
at intervals of two minutes, so that no man sees the other's mask
removed. It is this precaution that shields us against treachery."

With these words Garcia vanished, and the outer door closed suddenly
behind him. With one eye on the clock, Paul waited till the two minutes
had elapsed, then he arose before any one could anticipate him, and,
bowing to the other men, departed in his turn. He was prepared to run
any risk and any hazard now to keep Garcia in sight. It was in his
favour, too, that he was clad in evening dress, so that, once outside,
with his mask removed, he could mingle with the mob of guests assembled
for the dance, and follow his quarry unnoticed. He had not seen Garcia
without his mask, of course, but he had made a perfect mental impression
of that short, stout figure, and that bald head, and, given any luck, he
would be able to follow up the trail and mark his man down.

He was in time to see Garcia turning out of the corridor into the
ballroom, and, before the latter had reached the foot of the staircase,
and had entered the vestibule of the hotel, Paul was close behind him.
Just by the office a waiter stopped Garcia and gave him a message. The
latter frowned and shook his head. Paul was near enough now to hear what
passed between them.

"Tell the gentleman it is impossible that I should see him at this time
of night," Garcia said. "Say that I am tired and am just going to bed.
If he will call to-morrow morning at ten o'clock I will see him with
pleasure."

The waiter came back presently, and, after a word or two with Garcia,
went off in the direction of the smoking-room. Paul marked the waiter
down for future use, and then made his way back towards the ballroom.

He was keeping his ears open now, alert and vigorous to know if anything
unusual had happened during the last hour. But, apparently, there had
been no gruesome discovery, and, apparently, the body of the dead man
still lay in the alcove, where, possibly, it might remain concealed for
a day or two. For the dance was still at its height, and there was no
sign of alarm or disturbance or hesitation anywhere. Beyond doubt,
things were just as they had been when Paul turned his back upon the
ballroom an hour ago. Still, it ought to be all right, and if, at any
moment, a waiter, or a couple in search of solitude, blundered on the
body of Detmar, then it would be impossible now to connect Zena Corroda
with that ghastly business. And, for the moment, Wendover was not
thinking about it at all, for he could see nothing just then but the
white, despairing face of Zena, looking out at him, like a head of
death, behind a mask of gaiety. It seemed as if she were stretching
hands to him across the ballroom, much as if he had been a rope flung to
her across a stormy sea. He crossed swiftly to her side, and furtively
pressed the hand that she held out to him.

"Courage," he whispered, "courage. You see that I have come back safely
to you, and, so far, all is well. And I may tell you at once that I have
not been wasting my time. So far my mission has been highly successful.
But please--please don't look at me like that."

"Am I attracting attention?" Zena asked, anxiously.

"Well, apparently you are not," Paul smiled. "It is hardly your fault. I
suppose these people here are enjoying themselves so much that they have
entirely failed to notice that white, despairing face of yours."

"Is it so very noticeable, then?"

"Well, yes. And yet I gather that nothing has happened. The gruesome
discovery has not been made?"

"It couldn't have been," Zena said, "or I should have heard something
about it. I am sorry to think that you should consider me such a coward,
but the waiting has been dreadful."

Paul smiled down into the white, anxious face.

"Poor little girl," he said tenderly. "I can quite understand how your
nerves have been tried. But what have you been doing? Where is your
friend?"

"I think she has gone," Zena explained. "At any rate, I have not seen
her for some time now, and, on the whole, I think I have been happier by
myself. Now, do tell me what you have done. Tell me in as few words as
possible, because I am longing to get away."

"A little more courage," Paul whispered, "and then I will see you home.
I have made pretty sure of my ground, but in a big thing like this,
where the risks are so great, one must not neglect even trifles. I must
have a word or two with a certain waiter here before I leave."

A little sigh escaped Zena's lips.

"I am quite in your hands," she whispered, "you know that I trust you
implicitly."

Wendover looked down into the beautiful eyes, with a world of passion in
his own, and pressed the slim fingers again.

"And you shall never regret it," he said. "I am your friend for life,
and to help you is my own thought. No, don't thank me. It is pure
selfishness on my part, because, dear child, you are so beautiful, and I
never met a girl before who appeals to me as you do. But don't let us
forget the practical side of things, Look at these."

As Paul spoke, he took the packet of bank notes from his pocket and laid
them in the girl's lap. Then, in a few words, he explained how they had
come into his possession. He caught Zena's sigh of gratitude, and saw
the tears in the eyes that she raised with more than thankfulness to
his.

"Ah," she said, "if you only knew what it meant to me. It is not so much
the money I am thinking of, as of the knowledge that, for the moment, my
future is provided for. It is only a lonely girl like myself, struggling
hard in cold-hearted London for a bare living, who knows what it is to
be without a shilling. But there, what about yourself? Are you in any
danger, Paul?"

"I should say that we're all in danger," Wendover said, coolly. "And I
more than suspect that that rascal, Garcia, is aware of what he owes me.
Still, I'll never rest till I have dragged the last sovereign from that
rascal's clutches. His scheme is to destroy us one by one, so that he
can return to that room, in a year's time, alone, and possess himself of
your fortune. It will be my wits against his, my clean hands and the
strength of body God has given me, against black deceit and cunning. But
I shall win, Zena, and when I do, I will come back to you, and ask for
my reward. One moment, there is the waiter I spoke about."

Paul crossed to the man and slipped a coin in his hand.

"Who is that gentleman with the bald head you were speaking to just
now?" he asked.

"That, sir," the waiter said. "Oh, a great Hungarian millionaire, who
frequently stays in the hotel. His name, sir, is Mr. Leo Detmar."

So far, so good. It was all plain and clear now. Wendover crossed the
ballroom and gave Zena his hand.

"Come along," he said, "your patience has been rewarded now. I have
found out all I wanted, and now I am going to see you home. It seems to
me that I shall have a very busy time before me during the next few
months."




CHAPTER VII. Alone in London.


So far so good. Nothing could have fallen out better. For the present,
at any rate, Wendover had marked his quarry down, and in all probability
he would have a day or two in which to mark out a definite programme.
Garcia appeared to be a fixture in the hotel for the moment, and this
was all in Paul's favor. He was feeling slightly dizzy, and there was a
vibrant humming in his head when he made his way down the stairs. It was
as if he had been drinking too much strong wine. The contrast, too, from
that mysterious room with those masked figures to the
brilliantly-lighted ball room, gay with laughter and glittering jewels,
was almost too much, even for his splendid nerve. But he was not
dwelling upon that now: his one aim was to get Zena away without further
delay, before the inevitable discovery of the body of Leo Detmar must be
made. And so far there had been no disclosure of that ghastly crime.
Otherwise things would not have been going on in the way they were
moving at present.

Here was Zena, at length, seated safely in a corner of the taxi with a
strained and anxious look in her eyes. She had done her best to forget
the events of the past hour or so; she had had a dance or two, but she
was beginning to wilt now, under the nervous strain, as Wendover
realised directly he saw the purple shadows under those dark eyes of
hers.

"So far all has been well?" he asked, eagerly.

"Nothing has happened so far," Zena whispered, "but you cannot tell how
glad I am to be free again. A few minutes longer and I must have broken
down. I had been dancing, as you suggested, but I could not get that
dreadful alcove out of my mind. Up to a few minutes ago everybody has
been dancing and supping, but my fear was that the trouble might appear
at any moment."

The last words sounded almost like despair. Paul looked down at the girl
with infinite pity in his eyes.

"You have been wonderfully brave and patient," he said, "and you are not
going to be tried any longer. I am going to take you home. I shall never
lose sight of you again, you dear, brave little girl. Your fine pluck
would put courage into a coward----"

"If you only knew!" Zena whispered. "If you only knew!"

Ten minutes later the taxi pulled up in front of one of the smaller
houses in Malden-street. Regent-street, a semi-private house, evidently
devoted to a high-class dressmaker's business, for there was a foreign
name over the front door and a large window on one side, in front of
which the blinds were drawn.

"This is where I live," Zena explained. "I have a tiny bed-sitting-room
on the top floor. Sometimes I work for the owner of the shop, but
generally for myself. Madame Marbly is very kind to me; you see, she
knows something of my story, and that is why I have a room for nothing."

"Do you live here all alone?" Paul cried.

"Oh, yes. There is no one here at present, except myself. But I do not
mind, for I have got used to it. And there is a little sitting-room
downstairs with a gas stove that I use in the winter time when I want to
read. I'm not at all frightened. Will you--will you--come inside for a
moment?"

Zena hesitated as she made the suggestion.

"I'm afraid I must," Paul said. "There is a good deal I have to tell
you, and the sooner the better."

Zena switched on the lights in the little sitting-room, and dropped,
tired and almost helpless, in a chair. Her beauty and loneliness
appealed to Wendover with a new force. It seemed to him as if fate had
designedly thrown himself and this girl together. In his case
opportunity and inclination were hurrying forward hand-in-hand.

"I cannot tell you," he said, "how I admired your courage to-night. It
is the courage that leads to victory. You and I together are going to
win, Zena."

It seemed such a natural thing to call her by her Christian name, and
the girl's pale face flushed with pleasure. She sat there, with her
hands folded in her lap, listening intently to Wendover as he told his
story.

"I always hated that man," she said. "But I did not deem that he was so
black a scoundrel. He must be diabolically clever, too, to murder Detmar
in this fashion and pass himself off as the dead man. Do you think that
he means to serve the others in the same way?"

"I am absolutely convinced of it. The whole scheme is plain to my eyes.
Garcia means to get the others out of the way, and time is on his side.
Don't forget that he has a whole year in which to do it."

A startled look came into Zena's eyes.

"And you?" she asked. "What if he suspected you? What if he has found
out that you are the man who betrayed him to the Swiss police? In that
case is not your danger as great as the rest. If so, why go on!"

"There is that risk, of course," Wendover said coolly, "and the proofs
are locked up in the safe. Mind you, when I got on Garcia's track I had
no knowledge of the amazing romance into which I have blundered
to-night. I only knew Garcia as a scoundrel and an international spy who
is ready and willing to betray his comrades and his employers alike. And
that is why I dropped a hint to the authorities. Of course he may have
followed me to England; he may have recognised me to-night and decided
to keep silent with a view to getting me out of the way in the course of
time. But I am forewarned. It is his wits against mine. And I'll beat
him yet. For the moment we need not discuss him any longer."

"But we must," Zena cried. "I cannot allow you to run into a danger like
this for the sake of a stranger like myself."

"A stranger!" Wendover exclaimed. "Oh, Zena, don't call me that! There
is nothing I would not do for you. And there's nothing you can say that
will turn me back now. And I think the others are sorry for you."

"So you said just now. But what do you think of them? Are they sincere?
Or do you think that, like Garcia, their one idea is to get hold of the
money?"

"Oh, what does it matter? I tell you those men are doomed. They are mere
puppets in the hands of a master conspirator. And I am bound to confess
that I did not like what I saw of any of them. They belong to the wrong
breed; in any case, we need not waste any sympathy on them. I am going
to find out all about Garcia to-morrow, to discover whence he comes and
how long he is staying at the Ambassadors' Hotel. And then I will have
him carefully watched. I have only to drop a hint of what I have in my
mind to the editor of my paper to have a free hand and spend as much
money as I like in keeping Garcia under observation. And I must see you
again. Suppose you meet me on Tuesday afternoon at half-past four in
Kensington Gardens, and then we can have tea together and discuss the
future. And whatever happens I am your devoted friend. I will never lose
sight of you again, Zena, until this dreadful wrong is righted. And I
will not leave you then unless you tell me to go. Never in my life----"

Paul paused and checked himself with an effort. Zena seemed to read what
was passing through his mind, for she took his two hands impulsively in
hers, and gazed at him with her whole soul, in her dark, unfathomable
eyes.

"Good night," she whispered, "good night, and thank you from the bottom
of my heart. Good night, my more than friend, for I trust you wholly and
implicitly."

She lifted her eyes to his as she spoke, and he read something there in
them that moved him strangely. He half bent down, and, at the same
moment, with an impulse like that of a child, she raised her lips to
his. It was all so sweetly and naturally done, so spontaneous, that
there was not a touch of coquetry about it. It was very much as if a
tired child was kissing some dear friend good night. And, in that
moment, something passed between them, something strong, and yet
intangible, that was destined to alter the current of both their lives.
With the pressure of those lips still sweet on his, Paul went along the
lonely street, absolutely deserted now, with his thoughts in a strange
whirl.

For the moment, at any rate, he had forgotten entirely all about that
thrilling adventure in the mysterious room, for his thoughts were more
in the future than the present. He was with Zena alone; they were
together in a world of their own, so that Wendover was barely conscious
of the fact that he was treading the stony pavements of the West End. He
became aware, presently, that someone was speaking to him, some
foreigner in ragged attire, who was asking alms.

It was very lonely there, in that hour of the morning, for it was just 2
o'clock, and no policeman was in sight. Not that Paul was in the least
alarmed, he was accustomed to be out at all hours, and he knew how to
take care of himself.

"What do you want?" he demanded. "What are you doing here at this time?"

"I have no money; I am desperate," the man said.

"Well, I wouldn't be desperate if I were you," Paul said coolly. "It is
a dangerous thing to be desperate in a London street at this hour of the
morning. And I can assure you, my friend, I am quite capable of taking
care of myself."

"I did not mean that, senor," the stranger muttered. "I am desperate
that I have to beg for alms. Give me a shilling of your money that I can
get a bed in this strange city."

Paul handed over the desired coin, at the same time eyeing the beggar
closely. There was something about the man that did not suggest that he
was in want, though he thanked Paul profusely, and turned in the
opposite direction. Then he came back, creeping along behind his
benefactor, and hiding himself in the shadows, so that Wendover smiled.

"So I am being followed," he told himself. "I am being tracked by some
tool of Garcia's; it may be by the miscreant himself. Well, it is good
of him to give me this warning, because it puts me on my guard, and more
than ever convinces me that Garcia knew more than I gave him credit
for."




CHAPTER VIII.--Fifty Pounds in Cash.


It was quite late the following morning before Paul rose and breakfasted
leisurely in his sitting-room. He had a small town flat, not far from
the British Museum, where he had gathered together some of the treasures
that he had collected in all parts of the world during his travels, for
he was a born collector, and, moreover, quite apart from the income that
he earned as a journalist, he had ample means to gratify his tastes.
Therefore, the cosy little flat, under the shadow of the museum, was a
perfect treasure house of trophies, earned by flood and field.

Paul ate his breakfast tranquilly enough, with a feeling in his mind
that all was going well.

He had found, at length, the girl that he had been unconsciously looking
for all these years; he knew that he had made no mistake, and that Zena
was the one woman for him. He sat there, presently, smoking his
cigarette, going over the events of the previous evening, and idly
sketching out his plans for the future. Then the little heap of morning
papers neatly folded on the table caught his eye.

"By Jove," he exclaimed, "I had almost forgotten that. I wonder if they
have made any discovery at the Ambassadors' Hotel yet. They must have
done so as soon as the guests had cleared out. I wonder if the 'Herald'
had time to pick up anything for the later London edition."

Yes, there it was, with appropriate headlines. Paul read as follows:--


STARTLING DISCOVERY AT THE

AMBASSADORS' HOTEL.


Shortly before 3 o'clock this morning one of the waiters at the
Ambassadors' Hotel made a gruesome discovery in one of the furnished
alcoves leading out of the corridor of the suite of rooms that was
occupied last night by the Associated Arts Club, who were giving their
annual dance. In this alcove was the body of a well-dressed man,
apparently about fifty-five years of age, lying there half concealed by
a bank of ferns. The man, who was evidently a foreigner, had been
stabbed to the heart by some sharp-pointed instrument, which had
penetrated his dress shirt, which was stained with blood. From hasty
inquiries made, it appears that the stranger could not possibly have
been one of the guests, and a careful search of the body disclosed no
sign of identity. Beyond a leather purse, containing three or four
sovereigns, there was nothing to lead to identity, for the unfortunate
man's linen was not marked, and was evidently purchased somewhere
abroad. It is an undoubted case of murder, for the circumstances in
which the body was found preclude any suggestion of suicide. The police
are very reticent about the matter, and up to the time of going to press
have absolutely declined to make any statement. The inquest will be held
on Monday at 10 o'clock.

So, apparently, the police had made no discovery likely to lead to an
arrest, and so far they had no clue to the identity of the dead body,
for nothing was found in his pockets, and his linen and underclothing,
which were obviously new, bore no identification mark. Nor, so far as
Wendover could gather, was the crime associated in any way with the
dance at the Ambassadors' Hotel. But though Wendover made it his
business to inquire at Scotland Yard, he could not find that any
discovery had been made in connection with the mysterious millionaires'
club that had its headquarters at the great hotel in question.
Obviously, then, it had not occurred to the hotel officials to mention
the fact that a mysterious body of men had supped in the hotel on the
night of the crime.

All of which was to the good, as far as Wendover was concerned, for he
certainly did not want any inquiry into the meeting of the Brotherhood
at that particular moment. He had ascertained definitely that Garcia had
no intention of leaving London at present, and, moreover, that Garcia
frequently occupied a suite of rooms at the Ambassadors', where he was
an honored guest and spent his money freely. There had therefore been no
difficulty in detailing a clever private inquiry agent and one or two
assistants to keep a close eye on the sham millionaire. It was easy
enough for Wendover to tell his assistants that he was doing this on
behalf of the 'Daily Herald,' and make an excuse to the effect that
Garcia was acting as the agent for a big international loan, and that
the 'Herald' was interested in getting at the facts before the scheme
was made public.

With all this off his mind Wendover met Zena on Tuesday afternoon in
Kensington Gardens. She appeared to be eagerly awaiting his coming. She
was dressed in a simple frock of white muslin and an inexpensive straw
hat. But that was nothing that could detract from that marvellous beauty
of hers, nothing that could rob her of that exquisite sweetness and the
glory of her dark eyes.

She seemed eager and restless and somewhat excited as she placed her
hand in Wendover's.

"You are punctual," he said, "and I think that you have some news for
me. Am I not right, Zena?"

"Oh, yes," the girl cried. "A most singular thing has happened. I had a
letter by the middle day post, enclosing me 50 in postal orders. I left
those at my lodgings, of course, but I have brought the letter for you
to read. Shall we sit down for a moment? There's a quiet seat here."

There were only two or three lines in the letter that Zena handed to her
companion. There was no address upon it, and no signature save the sign,
'No. 4,' which was placed in inverted commas. With a knit brow Wendover
read as follows:--


Dear Madam,

It matters nothing who I am, though you may make a guess as to whence I
came and what the business of my life is. I heard, on Friday night, that
your late father, in his zeal for the Brotherhood, had left you
penniless. It will be my endeavour one of these days to try and right
the wrong which has been done to you. Meanwhile I enclose you 50 in
postal orders, which you may accept without loss of your proper pride
and with the assurance that it is part of your own money.


"It is easy to guess where this came from," Wendover cried. "It was sent
you by the tall man who was inclined to support me the other night when
I advanced your claims. And that being so, you need have no hesitation
in keeping the money, for it certainly came out of the safe. I suppose
that fellow's conscience troubled him or he would not have done this,
knowing you already had had 500. But that is not the point. I am
particularly anxious not to lose sight of any of those men, but
unfortunately I had to concentrate my attention upon Garcia, and that is
how they escaped me. Now did you happen to look at the post office stamp
on those orders? If you can tell me this it will not be long before I
can locate the man who calls himself Leon de Vince. You see it is not a
usual thing to send so large a sum of money in postal orders, and if
they happen to have been purchased at a sub-office the girl behind the
counter would be sure to have noticed him. If you will let me know----"

"I can let you know now. By chance I happened to notice the post office
stamp. It was Church-street, Hampstead."

"What a splendid piece of luck!" Wendover cried. "I live in Church-road,
Hampstead, as you know, and the post office in question is just round
the corner. It is a little fancy shop, and the girl behind the counter
is quite a friend of mine. This is going to help me materially. Now come
along and have some tea and let us try to forget our troubles for the
moment."

It was late the following afternoon before Wendover found time to drop
in at the little post office at Hampstead and make his enquiries. He
knew the audacious little blonde behind the counter, for he bought
papers and magazines there, and he had never found the girl averse to a
mild flirtation. Besides, he was a past-master in that kind of thing, and
before long he had discovered that at the far end of Church Grove an
Italian gentleman was lodging who rejoiced in the romantic name of Leon
de Vince. It was good to know that the man was not disguised under a
pseudonym. Moreover, Mr. de Vince was an artist of some repute in his
own country, who had taken rooms in Hampstead with a view to finding a
studio there. It was quite evident, too, that the romantic foreigner had
made a considerable impression upon the empty-headed little shop
assistant, for she seemed to know a good deal about him and his
movements. She knew, for instance, that he was in the habit of going to
town every night to some place of amusement or another, and that he was
extremely fastidious as to his food. He had told her himself that very
morning that there was only one place in London where a gentleman of
taste could obtain a dinner worthy of the name, and that was at the Cafe
Montagne in Regent Street, and that, moreover, he dined nowhere else.

Wendover knew that place by repute, a more or less fashionable cafe,
well patronized by the better-class of foreigners and such Englishmen as
have travelled largely. It was about five minutes to eight the same
evening, therefore, that Wendover dropped into a seat in the Cafe
Montagne in such a position that he could command the entire room, and
waited for his man. It was about a quarter of an hour later that the
tall Italian, with the drooping black moustache, followed on and took a
seat which had evidently been reserved for him a few tables away.
Despite the fact that the man had been masked when they had last met,
Wendover had no difficulty in recognising him.

Immediately opposite, at another table facing the Italian, was an
elderly clergyman, with white hair and long, luxuriant beard, staring
about him like one who is for the first time in strange and uncongenial
surroundings. As he opened his lips to give an order, Paul thrilled as
he recognised the hard, cruel mouth of Garcia himself. Then Wendover sat
back in his chair to watch the progress of events.

An hour passed, the diners were nearly through before de Vince half rose
from his seat, and with a loud cry pressed his hand to his left side
over the region of his heart. Then he collapsed over the table, and
Wendover could see the red blood dripping drop by drop on the white
tablecloth.




CHAPTER IX.--The Broken Chrysanthemum.


Wendover sat up, every nerve alert and quivering. His first impulse was
to rush forward to the table over which de Vince had collapsed, but he
restrained himself and remained where he was, watching everything from
under his knitted eyebrows, and at the same time preserving an attitude
of utter ignorance as to the tragedy which had taken place under his
eyes.

He was cool and collected again now, and fully conscious of the folly of
giving himself away. He felt, rather than knew, that the man with the
grey beard and benevolent air, seated at the table fronting the one
occupied by de Vince, was none other than Garcia, in an effective
disguise. Did Garcia know that Wendover was watching him? Did he know of
Wendover's identity, and that he was seated with in a few yards of the
man who had betrayed him to the Swiss police?

This was the eternal danger that Wendover had ever to guard against. If
yonder cold-blooded and calculating scoundrel was fully cognisant of
these things, then Wendover's life was as much in danger as that of the
unfortunate de Vince. It was madness to take risks now, so Wendover sat
there quietly, and watched the progress of events from his table.
Problems of this kind had become part and portion of his daily life. He
had learnt to value even the smallest clue, and he was not going to
forget his lesson at that moment. To begin with, he could see from where
he was sitting that, from Garcia's chair, he had a clear and
uninterrupted view of his victim, whom he was facing, and from whom he
was separated by not more than four yards. This was the first point. The
second point was that in front of Garcia, between the two small shaded
lamps, was a vase of magnificent red chrysanthemums. One of these had
fallen on the table, or rather had been broken off, for the head of one
of the blooms lay on the white table cloth like a splash of blood.
Apparently it had been severed from its stem at the base of the flower
as if it had been cut off by a knife. Garcia himself sat as if utterly
ignorant of the trouble; he appeared to have his table napkin bunched up
in his right hand as if he had just been applying it to his lips.

By this time a group of waiters had gathered round the stricken man, and
someone was calling aloud for a doctor. Almost instantly the whole
restaurant was in confusion, and the wildest rumors were afloat. It was
only a few minutes, however, before de Vince was carried away, and the
restaurant began to simmer down again into something like order. Still
Wendover never moved. Out of the corner of his eyes presently he could
see that Garcia was paying his bill, and a little later on his table was
empty. It was time to move now. Wendover called a waiter to his side,
and began to ask questions.

"What was the matter with that unfortunate gentleman?" he asked. "It
looked to me as if he had broken a blood vessel."

"'A most mysterious affair, sir," the waiter replied. "The gentleman was
shot in the left breast. He was not badly injured, and indeed, the
bullet had not penetrated far. But the doctor said if it had been inch
the other way it would have been fatal. But he will get better, oh,
yes."

"How did it happen?" Wendover asked.

The waiter shrugged his shoulders eloquently.

"A mystery, sir," he said. "No one saw the shot fired--in fact nobody
heard it. It was as if an unseen man with an unseen weapon had done it.
Of all the things that have ever happened here this is the most
mysterious. Everybody is puzzled. Perhaps the gentleman himself can tell
us something when he is in a state to talk. Meanwhile a doctor, who is
one of our regular customers, has taken him away to Hampstead in a taxi.
The police will see to the rest."

So far as it went this information was satisfactory enough. The one man
who could throw some light on the mystery, beyond the victim himself,
walked thoughtfully out of the restaurant presently, and himself took a
taxi to Hampstead. He was very thoughtful as he drove along, but by the
time he had finished his second cigarette he began to see a little light
shining behind the veil of darkness.

He began to understand, too, what an amazing and audacious antagonist he
had in the shape of John Garcia. Evidently the man would stop at
nothing. Of his courage there could be no question. And doubtless he had
thought this thing out to the minutest detail. He had made up his mind
beyond question to remove de Vince and Nikolo Petroff as coolly and
deliberately as he had made away with the unfortunate Leo Detmar. No
doubt he had calculated on the fact that only two men who really
mattered, in addition to Detmar, stood between him and the contents of
that fire-proof safe, and therefore to a certain extent the unexpected
appearance of Wendover, in the guise of one of the Brotherhood, had
apparently interfered with his deep-laid plans. But whether or not
Garcia could put his finger on Wendover as one of the persons to be
removed was not troubling Paul very much at that moment. It was
necessary, of course, to assume that such was the case, but just now
there were more pressing matters.

For the moment, at any rate, the attempt on de Vince's life had failed.
Not that this would prevent Garcia trying again and again, but not in
the same way if Wendover could prevent it. And how had the thing been
done?

By the time that Paul was comfortably seated in his own lodgings it
seemed to him that he had solved that part of the mystery. And the clue
of the broken chrysanthemum lying on that little table had been the key
to the puzzle. With matchless and unparalleled audacity Garcia had made
up his mind to destroy one of the lives standing between him and the
treasure, in that public place, under the eyes of a hundred people. It
had been no difficult matter to find out where de Vince was in the habit
of dining, and Garcia had laid his plans accordingly. He had so
contrived it that he could sit opposite his victim and shoot him coldly
and deliberately with some form of pneumatic pistol. That such weapons
were to be obtained, weapons almost as deadly as a revolver, Wendover
knew perfectly well. The rest was a mere matter of nerve and courage,
and the clerical attire had placed Garcia beyond the range of suspicion.
No doubt he had concealed his weapon in the folds of his table napkin,
and had shot down his victim through the barrier of the linen, as his
hand apparently lay idly on the table. And in so doing the pellet from
the pistol had severed one of the flowers in the vase of chrysanthemums
on its flight. It was this broken flower that had given Wendover his
clue, and he felt as sure of his ground now as if he had actually been a
confederate in Garcia's confidence.

Now what was the next thing to be done? It would be futile to consult
the Police, especially as Wendover had nothing but suspicion to go upon,
and doubtless by this time Garcia's disguise had been safely hidden.
Besides, to lay the matter before the authorities would be to disclose
the whole history of the Brotherhood, and perhaps deprive Zena of the
fortune to which she was undoubtedly entitled, to say nothing of the
fact that he would be merely putting Garcia on his guard.

There was nothing for it, therefore, but to wait a favorable opportunity
and call upon de Vince as soon as he was in a condition to receive
visitors. He might be inclined to talk, he might be disposed to welcome
the aid of one who would help him to bring Garcia to the end which he
richly deserved. And meanwhile, he could make inquiries at the
Ambassadors' Hotel. And with this resolve uppermost in his mind,
Wendover smoked a final cigarette and went to bed. He would lunch at the
Ambassadors' Hotel on the morrow.

He could not, however, resist the temptation of going round in the
morning and giving Zena a call. He felt just a little guilty and ashamed
of his eagerness, contrasting himself with a schoolboy who is in love
for the first time. But he wanted to see the expression in those
beautiful eyes, and, perhaps unconsciously, he was possessed by a desire
to see if Zena looked as beautiful in the morning as she had done on the
night of the dance.

But he need not have had any hesitation on that score. She was frankly
pleased to see him, and took him up to that little room of hers as if it
had been the most natural thing in the world. The place was a litter of
odds and ends of colored silks and all those things which are so dear to
the feminine heart, and on a table in the corner stood a sewing machine.

Wendover elevated his eyebrows.

"What is the necessity for all this?" he asked. "I had hoped you had
turned your back on this slave-driving work for ever. Don't forget that
you are quite rich now, a young woman who possesses her own fortune, to
say nothing of the 50 conscience money that our friend sent you. Do you
know, there must be some good in that man, after all."

Zena smiled happily.

"I feel this morning," she said, "as if all the world was full of good
people. And don't forget, Paul, that it behoves me to be careful; 550
will not last for ever, and I have the future to think of. Suppose you
fail?"

"Oh, I am not going to fail," Paul declared. "I shall see this thing
through, and I shall win. And that is why I am sorry to find you ruining
those beautiful eyes of yours with all this fine work."

"I like it, Paul. I am fond of my work. And besides, it keeps me from
thinking. It keeps me from brooding and worrying about you."

"Oh, then, you do worry about me?"

"Of course, I do. You are the only friend I have in the world, and when
I think of all your goodness to me I feel as if I could not do enough
for you. And now, perhaps you understand why I want to go on with my
work. I should prefer to have a little place in the country, but I must
be somewhere near you. I like to be in touch with you all the time,
where I can know exactly what is going on, and feel that you are safe."

"Oh, I shall be safe enough," Paul laughed. "Don't worry that pretty
little head of yours about that. Still, it is good to know that someone
is interested in me."




CHAPTER X.--The Window Over the Studio.


It was just before 1 o'clock the following day that Wendover strolled
into the Ambassadors' Hotel. He was fortunate enough to find the same
waiter who had been so useful to him on the night of the dance. A gold
coin, and in indication that this was a confidential matter, unlocked
the waiter's lips, and he spoke freely.

"Oh, yes, sir," he said. "Mr. Detmar, 'e stay frequently in ze 'otel. 'E
come an' go from ze Continent an' e' always haf ze same suite of rooms."

"Did he dine here last night?" Wendover asked.

"'E did not dine at all, sir," the waiter responded. "Las' night 'e not
very well. 'E go to 'is room about 7 o'clock with ze bad headache and
they take 'im up tea an' toast for dinner, an' 'e say 'e was not to be
called zis morning before ten o'clock. Then 'e breakfast in 'is room."

Here was information indeed. For Wendover was positively certain of the
identity of the sham clergyman whom he had seen in the Cafe Montagne the
night before. But it was up to him to say nothing to arouse the waiter's
suspicions.

"Indeed," he said. "Did you see the gentleman last night in his
bed-room? Did anybody see him?"

"I think not, sir. Only his friend, Mr. Ogilvy, a reverend gentleman who
is a great friend of his. When he come for ze night as a rule 'e 'ave a
bed made up for 'imself in Mr. Detmar's dressing-room."

"Mr. who?" Wendover asked. He had almost forgotten for the moment that
Garcia passed in the hotel as Detmar. "Oh, yes, how stupid of me. Of
course. So this Mr. Ogilvy came here yesterday, did he, and spent the
night on a bed made up in Mr. Detmar's sitting room. Is he here now?"

"No, sir. 'E dine out last night an' when 'e come back about 10 'e gave
orders to be called zis morning at 6 as 'e 'ad to catch an early train.
'E wanted no breakfast an' I suppose 'e went. I did not see 'im go. At
zat hour in ze morning zere will be no one about, except perhaps a
chamber-maid, and so many of our customers leave quite early."

Wendover saw it all quite plainly now. He could only admire the cunning
way in which at every turn Garcia was covering up his tracks. No doubt
he had used the clerical disguise on more than one occasion. The whole
thing was simple and ingenious to a degree. Garcia had only to announce
that his friend Ogilvy was coming to stay with him, and then to retire
to his bedroom with orders not to be disturbed, and the whole scheme was
complete. Behind his locked door he could change into the clerical
disguise and leave the hotel openly and freely whilst the management
were under the impression that the man they knew as Mr. Detmar was safe
in bed.

As Wendover drove back to Hampstead again he was profoundly impressed
with the task that lay before him. At any rate, he would have plenty of
time to think out some scheme, for nearly a fortnight elapsed before he
was able to meet de Vince, who evinced the greatest disinclination to
see any strangers. He was much better, his landlady informed Wendover,
but horribly shaky and nervous, and in constant dread of another attack
on his life. It was only when Wendover placed his card in an envelope
together with his half of the gold disc of the Brotherhood, and sent it
in for de Vince's benefit, that the latter consented to see him, and
even then only in the presence of his landlady. It was quite a week
later before de Vince was persuaded that Wendover's intentions were
friendly, and so far forgot himself as to see him alone.

"You have something important to say to me, I think," he said.
"Something to do with the Brotherhood."

"On the contrary, something entirely to do with you," Wendover said
coolly. "If you will allow me to sit down and talk to you quietly I will
put all my cards on the table."

"Proceed, Mr. Wendover," de Vince said warily.

"Thank you. Now to begin with, I am not one of the Brotherhood. I know
all about it, but I obtained my disc and the mask I was wearing on the
night of the meeting by stratagem. They both belonged to the murdered
man who was found in the Ambassadors' Hotel. How I got them matters
nothing. The police profess not to know who that unfortunate man was.
But I think you can guess."

De Vince showed signs of agitation.

"I'd rather hear from your lips," he said.

"Well, the man who was murdered was Leo Detmar. And the man who murdered
him beyond the shadow of a doubt was John Garcia. And Garcia had the
audacity to pass himself off at the meeting as the man he had killed,
which he did, despite the fact that Leo Detmar allowed himself to be
arrested so that Garcia could escape to England. Now I am the man who
betrayed Garcia to the Swiss police. I did so because the man is an
abandoned scoundrel, who more than once has betrayed those who employed
him. He was arrested on a trivial charge, but I had hopes in the
meantime of getting evidence that would hang the fellow. In time I
should have done so. It was to follow him up when I knew he had escaped,
that I took advantage of a piece of good fortune which enabled me to be
present at that meeting of the Brotherhood. Whether Garcia knows that I
am the man who betrayed him for the present matters nothing. What does
matter is that Garcia has made up his mind to become the master of the
fortune in the fireproof safe, and that he is planning to murder all the
members of the Brotherhood so as to lead the way. With any luck next
year he hopes to be present when the time lock runs out, and he hopes to
be present in that room alone."

"You are a wonderful man, Mr. Wendover," de Vince cried.

"We need not discuss that for the moment. I see you quite agree with me,
and that you now understand why I am here. In all probability my life is
just as much at stake as yours. And that is why I am ready to assist
you. And now, in proof of my bona-fides, I am going to tell you exactly
what happened in the Cafe Montagne and just how that attempt was made on
your life. Now, listen!"

Between the whiffs of his cigarette, Paul told his story. De Vince
listened with mingled admiration and astonishment.

"You have got it," he cried, "by heaven, you have got it! I see you know
the sort of man you had to deal with. I see you realize the deadly peril
in which the three of us stand. Can you wonder that my nerves are all
broken up, and that I creep about, afraid of my own shadow? I only dare
to travel in a cab, and at night I lie awake, sweating and trembling.
For this is the fourth time that the fiend has tried the same thing. And
yet a year ago I did not know the meaning of the word fear. And you can
help me--oh, yes. There is a place of safety for me here. It is a studio
next door where there are thick bars to the windows and overhead a
bedroom, the door of which is lined with steel like a safe. It was the
whim of an artist who was mad, who had delusions that the anarchists of
Russia were after him. There are bars to the bedroom window, too. It was
in Paris that I heard this studio was to let, and I should have been
established in it now but for that cursed scoundrel Garcia. I have a
faithful man-servant who will do anything for me, and who would look
after the house. In yonder desk you will find money. Take 100 and go
over to the agent and arrange that I become the tenant at once. For that
sum I can take over the lease and the furniture. Perhaps I shall be safe
there--at any rate, I shall have a chance to recover my lost nerves."

Within an hour their transaction was completed, and de Vince was
installed in his new home.

So far, so good. For the present, at any rate, it looked as if de Vince
was absolutely safe from the cold blooded and implacable enemy whose aim
and end in life was to run him down and utterly destroy him. There were
others in the way of Garcia's ambition, of course, but probably he was
devoting all his attention for the moment to his present victim, and the
mere fact that his first attempt upon de Vince had ended more or less in
failure would render him extra careful in the future.

There was always the temptation in Wendover's way to find out Garcia's
disguise and watch him night and day until he had effected his purpose,
so far as de Vince was concerned, and then, when the proofs were
overwhelming, hand him over to the punishment that inevitably awaited
him. This would mean that Garcia would be hanged, and Wendover's task
reduced to one of the easiest proportions.

But he put his temptation away from him, nothing should induce him to
win through at the cost of another man's life, however unworthy that
life might be, and, for the next day or two, Wendover set himself down
doggedly to watch carefully for the inevitable development on the part
of the foe. It was part of his policy to keep out of de Vince's way for
the present, until at any rate, the man could take a pull at his nerves
and get himself in hand again.

The best part of a week passed before there was any sign of movement on
Garcia's part; then, late one night, when Wendover was prowling about in
the neighbourhood of the studio, he saw something that aroused his
suspicions.

It seemed to him that, in the darkness, he could make out the outline of
a dim figure creeping along, in the direction of the house, and,
instantly, he followed it at a discreet distance. There was a
possibility, of course, that the figure in front was Garcia's, and that
he had come there bent on some murderous mischief. Still, it was no part
of Wendover's programme at that moment to make himself known, so he
stood on the grass and watched the figure in the neighbourhood of the
front door till it seemed to him that he might disclose himself, then he
advanced towards the house, carelessly humming a tune. The mysterious
figure immediately vanished, and it was some minutes before Wendover
deemed it prudent to strike a light.

Between the lock and the door-post were the plain marks of a chisel.
Wendover whistled to himself softly.

"Garcia is losing no time," he murmured. "Evidently the game has begun
afresh. Well, we shall see."




CHAPTER XI.--The Leaded Pane.


It was a matter of weeks before Wendover succeeded in gaining the
confidence of de Vince. There was something about the man that was both
attractive and repulsive at the same time. He appeared to be generous
and impulsive, but vain and selfish to a degree. He did not say much
about the Brotherhood to which, Wendover gathered, he had at one time
been loyal and enthusiastic. But those days apparently had long gone by,
and now de Vince appeared to regard the Society more as a means of
living than anything else. Apparently at one time the Brotherhood had
consisted of over twenty, but in one way or another they had dropped away
until only three or four remained. And, so far as Wendover could
ascertain, only those he had met that fateful night at the Ambassadors'
Hotel knew the secret of the time lock and the story of the treasure in
the safe. It was nearly two months before Wendover was satisfied that
this was the case.

Meanwhile de Vince had passed most of his time in his new house at
Hampstead, painting fitfully and taking occasional journeys to town in
the company of his man, without whom he never even went across the
Heath. And in this time more than one attempt had been made upon his
life. More than once Wendover had seen the man who called himself James
Ogilvy hanging about in the neighbourhood. It was more than significant
that the appearance of the man in clerical attire tallied with some
attempted outrage in which de Vince was concerned. Then these futile
attempts ceased and Wendover came to the conclusion that some deeper
plot was on foot. Over three months had elapsed before the next sign
came of Garcia's activity.

Outwardly at any rate, de Vince should have been safe enough. He was
never seen alone, the small house at Hampstead was protected by the last
thing in the way of bolts and bars and the studio in which de Vince
spent most of his time was protected from the outside like a goal. De
Vince's bedroom had windows of the old-fashioned type, small windows in
leaded panes outside of which were steel bars, the door was lined with
fireproof bronze, and burglar proof thermite steel, and fastened with a
patent lock. The fireplace was so small that nothing larger than a cat
could have come down the chimney.

It was only here at nights that de Vince felt really safe. Once he had
locked himself in his bedroom he felt that he could defy the world. In
moments when his nerves were at their worst he would lock himself in his
stronghold and stay there for days together. He never ceased to whine
and complain, never ceased to wonder what would become of him when once
his resources were exhausted. Wendover did not ask what these resources
were, but he could guess. De Vince was living on the thousand pounds
which he had obtained at the last meeting of the Brotherhood.
Occasionally when de Vince was at his worst he would implore Wendover to
come round and dine with him and spend the night under his roof.

"I can't help it," he whined. "There was a time when I was as courageous
as you are. And when I think of that fiend, and the way he is trying to
track me down, my heart turns to water. And he will get me yet, he will
have me in spite of all my precautions. Even if I call in the police it
will come to the same thing. Don't laugh at me, Wendover. Stay the night
like a good fellow, and be a friend. If anything happens to me, you have
a spare key to my bedroom, and if you find me dead in bed some time, as
you will, all my money and private papers are in the little black box on
the mantelpiece. My disc is there, too. Curse the Brotherhood! Would to
heaven I had never seen or heard of it."

Scenes like this occurred once or at twice a week, but November dragged
through and Christmas was at hand, and, as yet Garcia had made no sign.
Evidently he knew how to bide his time.

It was one night early in January, and de Vince was at his worst. His
frayed nerves were all on edge, he was white and trembling, and his eyes
were full of terror.

"You will come back and sleep here to-night," he implored. "You won't
leave me alone, Wendover?"

"It shall be as you like," Wendover replied. "But I'm dining out this
evening and going to the theatre afterwards with Miss Corroda, and very
likely we shall sup at a restaurant at the finish. I can get back here
by half-past twelve, if you will ask your man to sit up for me."

"Give Miss Corroda my kind regards," de Vince said. "Say that I have
always done my best for her. If anything happens to me you will find
over six hundred pounds in the little black box which I want you to give
to her. Strictly speaking, it is her own money."

Wendover gave the desired promise and went his way. During all this time
he had seen Zena once or twice a week, and though he had not breathed to
her a single word with regard to his feelings, there was a subtle
understanding between them, and it needed no speech on Wendover's part
to show the girl how deeply she had touched his affections. And she was
happy enough in a way. There was something infinitely uplifting and
comforting in the knowledge that this man cared for her, and that she
had someone in the future to protect and shield her on her way through
the world. And yet with it all there was always the haunting dread that
something might happen to Wendover, and that at any moment he might fall
a victim to the merciless scoundrel who was slowly clearing the path to
the treasure of the safe. It was in vain that Wendover made light of
these fears, fears which, in his less sanguine moments, he shared
himself.

But even if Garcia had penetrated his identity he knew perfectly well
that there would be no attempt upon his life until both de Vince and
Nikolo Petroff were cleared out of the way. Then it would be time for
him to look to himself. And in the meantime through his agents he was
gradually collecting together the evidence through which he hoped, if
not to hang Garcia, at any rate to lay him by the heels for the rest of
his natural life. And moreover, another set of agents were keeping
Garcia under close observation. In his frequent visits to the Continent
he was followed every step of the way, but latterly he was spending most
of his time at the Ambassadors' Hotel, where he entertained largely and
posed as a man who has made a large fortune and was now in a position to
enjoy it. But even at this time he had his bad days, when he spent most
of his time in his bedroom, and on such occasions the Rev. James Ogilvy
was always more or less in evidence.

"We won't worry about him to-night at any rate," Wendover smiled. "We
are quite safe for the present, and so far de Vince has met with no
harm. And there is always a chance at any moment of my being in a
position to get Garcia arrested by the Swiss or Italian police. So let
us go and dine quietly at the Ritz, and go to the theatre afterwards.
Courage, little girl, courage. You will be a rich heiress yet, and then
I shall be afraid to come near you."

Zena laughed happily. Her cheeks were flushed with pleasure, her dark
eyes gleamed like stars.

"In that case I would rather be as I am," she said. "What would the
money be to me without you, Paul?"

"Are you making love to me?" Wendover asked.

"There's no occasion," the girl said simply. "I think that you and I
understand one another from the first. I am not deceiving myself. And if
ever you leave me! But, my dear boy, you will never do that."

"How well you know your power," Wendover whispered.

"Do I?" Zena laughed happily. "Well, perhaps I do. I think that every
girl does, when once she realises herself. And yet there was a time when
I was not aware that there was such a person as you in existence."

"Nor I you," Wendover said. "I was just casting about for something to
do, some mere excitement to fill in the time, and I find by sheer
chance, the great adventure of my life. If I had not been impudent
enough to follow you that afternoon in Fleet Street----"

"If you had not, well, really, I don't want to think about it, Paul. I
should be just struggling on in that little room of mine, fighting hard
for a living, and with nothing but the dreariest fortune before me. And
now, as you say, I am more or less of a capitalist----"

"Ah, that's just what I was going to talk to you about," Wendover said.
"You have more than five hundred pounds, and I suppose a girl who has
been brought up like you could live on about two pounds a week, and be
quite well dressed into the bargain. You could make your own
clothes----"

"I do," Zena smiled. "I made the dress I am wearing at the present
moment. And I hope you think I look nice."

"You look lovely, as you always do," Wendover cried. "But surely a dress
like that is sheer extravagance?"

"It would be if I bought it in a shop," the girl laughed. "It would cost
pounds and pounds. As a matter of fact, it was all done for thirty
shillings."

"Upon my word, Zena, you are wonderful. You might be a duchess, or, at
any rate, a girl in a family where they have nothing to do except think
about their clothes. Do you know, that you will make quite a sensation
when we go into supper, and already some of my friends are asking me the
name of that distinguished looking foreign princess that I have been
seen with so frequently of late. Oh, it's a fact, I assure you; you've
no idea how they envy me."

It was all utter nonsense, of course, but infinitely sweet to Zena,
lying back by the side of the man she loved, the girl who, not very long
ago, had shrunk back from the future, the future which she was almost
afraid to face. And now, everything had changed, now she was armed
against the world, in comfortable circumstances, and, but for the
uncertainty and dread of what might happen to Wendover, there was not a
cloud on the horizon. She sighed happily.

"Ah, Paul," she said. "You are very good to me. I don't know what I have
done to deserve all the kindness I have received at your hands."




CHAPTER XII.--A Vain Endeavour.


Zena looked back upon that evening afterwards as the happiest of her
life. She was frankly and innocently conscious of her own beauty, and
joyous in the knowledge that, in her simple evening dress and Neapolitan
violets, she contrasted favorably with any woman there. And she was glad
not so much for her own sake, but for Wendover's. She liked to see the
love and pride of possession in his eyes, she was proud of his
admiration, and content with the world as she found it. For the moment,
at any rate, she had put all fear out of her mind, and gave herself over
wholly to the enjoyment of the evening. There was a theatre afterwards,
followed by a cosy little supper, and then the drive home in a taxi that
was all too short.

Zena lay back in the corner of the cab, dwelling on the events of the
evening. Wendover was talking to her, but she was hardly conscious of
what he said. Then presently she knew that her hand was in his, and that
his arm was about her waist. He bent to kiss her, and she gave her lips
back to him as if it were the most natural thing in the world.

"Am I too bold?" Wendover asked.

"Oh, no. You know, you have known all the time that there never could
have been anybody else. Between us there is no need for words. Don't
spoil it by saying anything, Paul, because I can read your heart as
easily as you can read mine. And I am so glad, so proud to give myself
to you like this."

The rest of the drive was pure enchantment to Zena, and she parted
presently from her lover without another word being said on either side.
It was like some beautiful dumb play, like a famous comedy that Zena had
once seen in a famous Paris theatre. Mere words would have spoilt it.
They would come all in good time, but for the moment a love idyll like
that did not call for them. It is not often that a girl finds the ideal
lover, but it seemed to Zena at that moment that she had been picked out
and exalted above other women.

Meanwhile Wendover drove back to Hampstead with his head in the clouds.
He only came back to earth again as he stopped before the door of the
studio and rang the bell. After a moment's hesitation, an inquiry as to
who was there, de Vince's servant opened the door. His master had gone
to bed, he said, though he had not yet put out the light.

"How is he to-night, Martin?" Wendover asked.

"Very nervous, sir. Very shaky and ill-tempered. He began to think that
you were not coming. He had his supper in his bedroom, and I have just
cleared the things away. Can I get anything for you, sir?"

"Nothing to eat," Wendover said. "You might leave out the tantalus, and
a syphon of soda water, and then you can go to bed. I shan't want
anything else."

De Vince's voice called out from the top of the staircase.

"Is that you, Wendover?" he asked. "Oh, all right, I only wanted to be
sure that you had come back. I'm not coming downstairs. I've just had a
sleeping draught, and I think I shall get a good night's rest."

He closed the bedroom door behind him, and Wendover heard the click of
the patent lock. He sat there for an hour or more, smoking cigarettes to
the accompaniment of a weak whisky and soda, sat there for an hour or so
with his head in the air dreaming over the events of the evening. As he
turned sleepily between the sheets of his bed he heard a distant clock
striking the hour of two. Then he slept peacefully, for he knew not how
long till it seemed to him that he was aroused by the sound of a heavy
fall in the next room and a muffled scream. Just for a moment it
occurred to him it that he was merely dreaming. Nothing could possibly
be happening in the next room, no evil hand could reach out for de Vince
there, and Wendover turned on the other side and prepared to sleep
again. But he could not altogether rid himself of the uneasy feeling in
his mind. He knew all about the steel-lined room and the heavy bars
before the old-fashioned latticed windows. But he knew also of the man
he had to deal with. He had a wholesome respect for Garcia's dogged
tenacity and his infinite resource. Still he closed his eyes again and
tried to sleep. But sleep refused to come to him, so at the end of a
quarter of an hour he switched on his light and crept on to the landing.
Then very gently he knocked on de Vince's door. He knocked again and
again, but no reply came. No doubt de Vince was sleeping peacefully, no
doubt the morphia tabloid had done its work. But Wendover was not
satisfied.

He crept back to his room and took the duplicate key of de Vince's door
from his pocket. He entered and switched on the light. In the full ray
of the electric he could see de Vince propped up on his pillows with his
face turned towards the window. There was a queer sort of convulsive
grin on his face, his lips were drawn back, showing his teeth, in a
snarl like that of a frightened dog who is driven into a corner and
terrorised to the verge of danger. But no motion was there of the
unfortunate man's chest, he had for some time ceased to breathe, though
his limbs were still relaxed and the body was yet warm. There was no
sign yet of rigor mortis. In the centre of de Vince's forehead was a
tiny blue mark, not greater in circumference than a pea, but at the base
of the skull there was a jagged hole, from which the deep indigo blood
was still flowing freely. Beyond doubt de Vince had been shot dead as he
lay asleep, or perhaps just at the moment as he had opened his eyes to
the consciousness that all his precautions had been in vain. Anyway, the
man was dead, and the one man in the world who knew how the thing had
been done was gazing down at the corpse.

And yet Wendover did not know how it had been done. He was aware of the
identity of the hand from which this foul blow had been struck, but as
to the rest he was utterly and entirely puzzled. He stepped forward to
lay his hand upon the bell, and then he paused. He would have to move
slowly. There were other things to think of besides the manner in which
de Vince had come to this end. There was Zena, for instance. And the
story of the Brotherhood which must not be told yet. The household must
be alarmed and the police called in presently, but there were certain
things to be done first.

Wendover crossed the room and took from the mantelpiece the little black
box. He knew that this contained de Vince's money and the disc of the
Brotherhood. And these in no case could concern the police. He hid the
black box in a place of safety and returned to the scene of the murder.
He knew perfectly well that de Vince's door had been secure, for he had
tried it before he himself had gone to bed. There were only two keys in
the world to fit that door, a fact that had been guaranteed by the
makers of the lock. The blind was down in front of the window, and
behind it every pane of glass in the leaded frame was absolutely sound
and intact. So, too, were the bars of the window. How, therefore, had
this dastardly crime been accomplished? Here was the door safe and
sound, the window undisturbed, and the blinds still down. And as for the
chimney, no human being could possibly squeeze through here. And yet de
Vince had been murdered, had been shot clean through the brain by a sure
hand with a revolver. There could be no suggestion of suicide either,
for the closest search of the bedroom disclosed no sign of a weapon. Nor
was the key of his own door missing, for Wendover found it in the
murdered man's trouser pocket. Throughout the house every door and
window was securely fastened. The whole thing was so weirdly mysterious
that Wendover shivered and a strange sensation crept up his spine. Then
he called up the police on the telephone.

Indeed, it was absolutely necessary to call on the police now. The crime
at the Ambassadors' Hotel could look after itself; the thing had been
done beyond all recall, before Paul had come upon the scene, and before
he had the least idea that he was about to embark upon the great
adventure of love and danger that had changed the whole course of his
life. But it seemed to him that it would be an imprudent thing to
disappear now and detach himself from the strange circumstances that
surrounded the death of de Vince. Besides, by so doing, he might place
it beyond his power to avail himself of certain clues which had come
into his possession.

Yes, he would call up the police and tell them just as much as it seemed
to him that they were entitled to know. He would say nothing whatever
about the safe and its contents, nothing whatever about Zena's father,
and the strange circumstances which led to the depositing of all that
treasure in the safe.

He could pose as a man who had met de Vince casually, and who had learnt
something of the source of his terror. He could tell Scotland Yard
authorities that de Vince was a man who had mixed himself up in some
Socialist conspiracy, and that he was hiding from the vengeance of his
colleagues. So far it would be quite safe to go, and this he could do
without implicating himself in any way. He did not suppose, for a
moment, that the Scotland Yard people would know anything about Garcia
or the ramifications of the Brotherhood, and, so far, he knew that the
Criminal Investigation Department had not connected the body of men who
gathered in room No. 75 at the Ambassador's Hotel with the death of Leo
Detmar.

It seemed almost incredible that the authorities had not blundered on
their trail, or that the management of the Ambassadors' Hotel had not
mentioned it, but there it was, and a few discreet inquiries made at
Scotland Yard had served to confirm this impression in Wendover's mind.

He merely called up the police on the telephone, with the information
that a mysterious occurrence had taken place at Hampstead, and that
their presence was required immediately, then he sat down to wait, going
over in his mind and arranging the details that he was going to
disclose. It was nearly an hour later before he was told that someone
wanted to see him. He saw a short, thick-set man, with a pair of
observant eyes, and a quick, alert manner, who touched his cap.

"From Scotland Yard, sir," he said. "I think you are the gentleman that
sent for me."




CHAPTER XIII.--De Quincey's Diary.


It was in vain, of course, that the police sought for some tangible clue
to London's latest sensational crime. Wendover might have had a good
deal to say, but, for the moment, he was hanging back. Nothing was to be
gained by discussing the affairs of the Brotherhood, and there was just
a possibility of the murderer being brought to justice without giving
Scotland Yard the whole of the facts. It might be necessary to do so
later on, but for the moment Wendover was playing his own hand. To the
inspector in charge of the case he simply posed as a recent acquaintance
of the dead man, but he mentioned Garcia under the name of Detmar, and
was frank enough with regard to the comings and goings of the Rev. James
Ogilvy. About the Brotherhood and the secret of the safe he said
nothing. It seemed to him that for the present he had given the
authorities enough ground for arresting Garcia, but further than this he
decided not to go.

But a visit to the Ambassadors' Hotel disclosed the fact that the man
who called himself Detmar had disappeared, and that nothing was known of
the Rev. James Ogilvy, except the fact that he had occasionally been the
guest of the sham Austrian millionaire. And it is perhaps needless to
say that Crockford's Clergy List contained no such name as James Ogilvy.
For the present, at any rate, the police investigations had merely led
into a blind alley.

But the inspector in charge of the case made certain discoveries which
went far to satisfy Wendover as to the way in which the crime had been
committed.

"I think I can tell you all about that, sir," the inspector said. "If
you will come with me as far as the studio I fancy I can prove my
theory."

"I shall be only too pleased," Wendover said.

The studio itself with the bedroom over had been built out at an angle
to the house and the upper room, de Vince's bedroom, in fact, had a flat
roof, coated with lead.

"Look here, sir," the inspector said. "If you will look at that
drainpipe against the wall you will see that it has been recently
climbed with the aid of irons. You can see where the paint has been
scratched off, and the bricks scarred. In the darkness of the night the
task would be an easy one to an able-bodied man, especially if he had
studied his ground. And the rest was easy. The bedroom window is pretty
close to the leads, and it would have been no difficult matter to attach
a portable seat with ropes to the gutter so that the criminal could sit
there comfortably in front of the window. Then with the aid of a
painter's knife he could have turned back the lead from the latticed
panes and removed half a dozen of them in a few minutes. There was no
fear of being disturbed because the studio looks out over the open
heath. Once this was done the blind could have been pulled aside through
the bars, and a brilliant electric torch turned on the face of the man
who was sleeping on the bed there. This torch would have been held in
the left hand, and would have given a perfect view of the interior of
the room. In his right hand the murderer had an automatic pistol to
which a silencer was attached. Can't you see how easy it all was?"

"It does sound simple now," Wendover admitted.

"Simple as kiss your hand. With one shot the mischief was done. Then all
the murderer had to do was to replace the blind and put those panes of
glass back again and flatten the leads holding them with his knife. I
know he did this because there are traces that the panes have been
recently removed. Then the murderer goes about his business under the
natural impression that he has left no trace behind. But though this is
well enough in its way, it does not bring us any nearer to the arrest of
the assassin, and I am very much afraid that it never will."

It looked as if the inspector's prophecy was likely to be verified, for
the end of March came and no trace of a Detmar, or rather Garcia, had
been found, and thus nine months had elapsed since the meeting of the
Brotherhood at the Ambassadors' Hotel. With all his caution, Wendover
found himself at fault. By this time Zena had moved into more
comfortable quarters which the possession of her money had enabled her
to take. But she was still restless and anxious, and fearful lest at any
moment the long arm of Garcia would reach out of the darkness and deal
her lover some mortal injury.

But there was another man to be got rid of first in the person of Nikolo
Petroff, though possibly he had already been dealt with. And Wendover
could have given a good deal to have been sure of the fact. Sooner or
later he would have to know, and one day the knowledge came to him from
a source which was altogether unexpected.

It came in the form of a letter from Newquay addressed to de Vince at
the Hampstead studio. As it was put in the letter-box of the studio of
which Wendover still possessed the key, he opened it without hesitation.
It was not for him to know that it came from the very man for whom he
was seeking. And it left absolutely nothing untold.

Evidently de Vince had been corresponding with Petroff, and the dead
man's last letter had been forwarded to him to an address at Drayton in
Virginia. In reply Petroff apologized for the fact that the letter had
been delayed in transmission. Petroff, it appeared, was at present hiding
from some threatening danger in an ideal little village near Newquay,
and from the contents of the letter Wendover decided the fact that
Petroff stood in the same deadly fear of Garcia as de Vince himself had
done.

"I may tell you, my dear friend," the letter ran, "that I have no
intention at present of leaving these safe quarters. It was an accursed
day for us when that money was placed away in the fireproof safe, and
that black scoundrel made up his mind to rid the world of us so that the
treasure might be his. But I have escaped him now, and he and London
will never see me again. And I have found something to do, my friend. I
have made the acquaintance of a charming old professor of literature, an
American, who has obtained a number of unpublished manuscripts, written
by the famous author, Thomas de Quincey. I always had literary tastes,
as you know, and arranging these letters for the press for my friend,
the Professor, affords me not only a congenial occupation, but a living
as well. You were an admirer of de Quincey, I think. It will be news to
you that he once attempted to commit suicide by poisoning himself. I
have seen the original letter; in fact, I have just made a copy of it
for the professor from the original manuscript. It was found by de
Quincey's side on one occasion when he had taken an overdose of
laudanum. But all this may not interest you.

"But why not come down here and join me? It is a charming and ideal
spot, and the old professor is delightful company. I can give you a room
in my cottage."

There was much more to the same effect, but Wendover was satisfied. The
more he turned this matter over in his mind the more sure he was that
behind all this was some deep-laid plot for the taking off to Petroff.
Then, like a flash of lightning it burst on Wendover's understanding
that here was Garcia's work again, and that the old professor was none
other than that clever scoundrel in a fresh disguise. Here was some
scheme in which laudanum or opium was being used with deadly effect;
perhaps the mischief was already done.

An hour later Wendover was on his way to Paddington to catch the next
train to the Cornish Riviera.

Of course, it was no more than a mere surmise on Wendover's part, one of
those deductions that come like a flash of inspiration every now and
again, to those engaged in criminal investigations, and which mark the
difference between the ordinary policeman and the born detective.
Wendover had nothing to go upon, except by his own great good fortune he
had come upon a letter which showed quite plainly that Petroff had not
only been in constant communication with de Vince, but that he, too, had
in some strange way blundered upon a clue which had given him a clear
indication of Garcia's murderous designs.

And perhaps Petroff, too, had known something of this scheme that Garcia
had put up with a view to blinding his colleagues, and getting the
unfortunate Detmar to impersonate him in a Swiss gaol. Clearly the
scoundrel had not been so cunning as he thought, and, clearly, several
of the Brotherhood at any rate had obtained some inkling of what was
going on. Therefore, there was nothing for it now, but to get down to
Cornwall without delay. But, first of all, before he left London, it
would be only an act of prudence to call on Zena and tell her what he
was about to do. She listened to him quietly enough, her eyes were brave
and steadfast, but, at the same time she turned pale and faltered as she
spoke.

"Oh, do be careful, Paul," she said. "I dread the idea of your placing
yourself in that man's power. And I am quite sure that he knows all
about you. I am quite sure he knows who Paul Wendover is, and that he is
just as eager to get rid of you as anybody else. He has made up his mind
that your turn is to come as soon as he has got rid of the others, and,
by going down to Cornwall to that lonely village you are placing
yourself entirely in his power. He might lure you to the edge of a cliff
and murder you."

"I don't think so," Paul said confidently. "To begin with, if my
suspicions are correct, I shall have the advantage of knowing what I
have got to deal with. And again, if Garcia is really posing as this
harmless old professor of literature, he will never dream for a moment
that I have penetrated his disguise. I can assure you, my dearest girl,
I have been in greater danger than this. Don't look so unhappy, Zena,
don't make me feel sorry that I told you. Come, be the brave little girl
you were on the night of Detmar's death, and wish me good luck in my
task. And if you----"

"Oh, I know, I know," the girl cried. "You want me to give you a kiss.
Well, a hundred, if you like. And write to me every day. I shall know no
peace till you return."




CHAPTER XIV. A Forged Letter.


It was nine or ten days later, and Wendover found himself comfortably
settled down in an old farm-house on the outskirts of the quiet village
where Petroff had taken up his quarters. In a place so small it would be
no difficult matter to make the acquaintance of Petroff and inform him
that he, Wendover, had been with de Vince on the night of his death.

It was clear enough that Petroff was shocked and frightened at this
information. In the circumstances he promised readily enough not to
mention this matter to a soul, not even to Professor Galloway, the
charming old gentleman in whose employ Petroff was at that moment.

"I am not astonished that you are disturbed," Wendover said, "and I am
sure you have guessed who was the author of your unhappy friend's
death."

"It was Garcia," Petroff said hoarsely.

"Of course. And it was Garcia who murdered Leo Detmar at the same time
that he was pretending to be Detmar himself. I had all the information
from de Vince, and I am as sure as you are that Garcia is looking for
you all over the world to serve you the same way. Of course, it is the
money in the safe that he is after, and to obtain possession of that he
is ready to wade up to his neck in crime. But for the moment, at any
rate, you appear to be safe so long as you tell your secret to no one.
Now I want you to introduce me to this old professor as a friend of
yours and just leave it at that. I am curious to see that man."

An evening or two later the meeting took place. Outwardly, at any rate,
Petroff had not exaggerated the charming manner and quaint personality
of the man who called himself Professor Galloway, late English lecturer
of an American University. He was an old man with abundant white hair
and beard, an old, benevolent-looking man, who appeared to survey life
pleasantly through a pair of large gold-rimmed spectacles. His English
was perfect, with just the trace of a foreign accent, which he
attributed to his mother, who had been Spanish-American. And just at
that moment he appeared to be entirely wrapped up in his recent
discovery of the de Quincey documents, which he declared that he had
picked up in an old book-shop in the older quarters of New York.

"They will be a revelation to the public," he said, as they sat at
supper in Petroff's tiny cottage. "And my friend, Petroff, is going to
share the glory of this great find. In fact, he has been invaluable to
me. You see, I am old and shaky, and my handwriting is not what it was.
And therefore, Petroff has made separate copies of all those letters for
the publishers. Some day, perhaps to-morrow, I will show you the
original letters that de Quincey wrote after he had taken that overdose
of laudanum. A disjointed fragment, but in the great man's own
handwriting. But when I get on this hobby I can talk of nothing else.
You are making a long stay here, Mr. Wendover, in this delightful spot?"

"It all depends," Wendover said evasively. "I should like to stay here a
week or two, but I may have letters calling me away at any moment. But I
shall be here till the end of the week--possibly longer."

Wendover spoke easily enough, but he was puzzled all the same. There
were moments now and again when this man strongly reminded him of
Garcia, but so far he could not be sure of his ground. If this man
really were Garcia, then, indeed, he was a consummate actor, in addition
to his other gifts, for so far he was keeping up his character to
perfection. And so a week went by without anything happening to confirm
Wendover's suspicions and without a single sign that Professor Galloway
was anything but what he pretended to be.

Still, Wendover had no intention of allowing it to go at that. He
carefully watched the man who called himself Professor Galloway, and, at
the same time, assumed the air of a man who lives only in the moment,
and has no concern for the morrow. More than once he found an
opportunity of being alone with the professor; more than once they
rambled together along the granite cliffs beyond the little fishing
village, and talked together casually, as men will. Wendover spoke
freely of his own work on the 'Daily Herald,' and of the various
adventures he had gone through on behalf of that paper. He even
mentioned certain anarchists he had met, and how he had laid himself out
to lull their suspicions to sleep and worm himself into their
confidence. For it was no part of his game to try and delude the astute
and clever man whose identity was hidden behind a benevolent head of
white hair and a pair of spectacles. And Garcia, if Garcia it was,
listened and chuckled, and asked the most innocent questions, with the
air of a boy on the beach discussing adventures with some old sailor.

"Ah, Mr. Wendover," the Professor said. "Do you know I find this most
entertaining. You are opening up a new field to me, for I am almost
ashamed to confess that I did not know there was so much wickedness in
the world. You see, ever since I was a boy at school, I have cared for
nothing but books, and I lived among old manuscripts till I am as dusty
and old-fashioned as they are themselves."

As the Professor spoke, he chuckled and choked over his own poor little
joke, and looked like a benevolent old gentleman who has never come in
contact with crime or trouble throughout the whole of his easy and
tranquil life. As a bit of acting, the whole thing was splendid, and
Wendover was not grudging in his secret admiration.

"Yes, Professor," he said. "It is just as well that you should know
these things. Some of these people may come your way, and then you will
know how to deal with them."

The professor laughed like a boy.

"Indeed I shouldn't, Mr. Wendover," he said. "All this is very
interesting, no doubt, but I am afraid, as a lesson that it would be
thrown away. Now, what could I do with a revolver, for instance? It
would be far more dangerous to me than to the man at the other end of
it. And I am far too old for this sort of thing. I am very, very old."

He chuckled and wheezed, while Wendover watched him carefully. He felt
that his time would come yet. For not one moment was he going to relax
any vigilance.

Then there came an autumn night following a calm tranquil day on which
Wendover had been out all the afternoon with a gun in his hand, and when
he had finished his frugal supper he walked as far as Petroff's cottage
with a view to a chat. Petroff had apparently just finished his supper,
for the plates and dishes were piled up on a little side table, and at
the writing desk, in the centre of the room, under a hanging lamp, was
the tenant of the cottage with a mass of papers. The professor smiled as
he looked up, but there was no welcome in his eye; indeed, he seemed
rather annoyed at the interruption.

"I am intruding?" Wendover said.

"Well, perhaps, for once you are," the professor replied. "It is a rude
thing to say, but you will pardon me. My publishers have telegraphed
today for a portion of the manuscript, and I am very anxious to get it
off by the mail in the morning. So perhaps, my dear sir----"

"I understand perfectly," Wendover said. "I will come round again in the
morning."

With this he turned away and vanished into the night. Without quite
knowing why, he felt restless and anxious. He had an idea that the
trouble was approaching its crisis. But he could do nothing; in the
circumstances it was impossible to interfere. He went to bed presently,
his mind full of strange forebodings. Nor was he wrong!

Just after breakfast that following morning Professor Galloway came
hurrying up to the farm house in a state of great distress and pitiable
agitation.

"I am so pleased to have found you in, Mr. Wendover," he said, "for a
most terrible thing has happened. My dear friend, Petroff, has committed
suicide."

Wendover reeled back, sick and dizzy.

"Impossible," he cried. "He was the last man in the world to do anything
of the sort. If he is dead, then you may be sure that he has been
murdered."

"I wish I could think so. But the evidence of suicide is too strong. I
left our poor friend last night at half-past ten, apparently in the best
of health. When I looked into the cottage this morning I found him dead
in his chair. Apparently he had not moved since I left him. By his side
was a two-ounce bottle of laudanum, enough to kill half a dozen men. The
bottle was nearly empty, and by the side of it a sheet of notepaper with
a few lines in Petroff's handwriting to say that he could not keep
fighting a mental trouble that is overpowering him any longer, and that
he had decided to take his life. For his sake I would hush this matter
up if I could, but you will see that such a course is out of the
question. But would you not like to look into the matter for yourself?"

Petroff sat in his chair by the side of his table, quite dead. There was
the empty bottle by his side, and the letter explaining the tragedy. And
as Wendover bent to read it the blood was beating like drums in his
head, for now he could see the whole thing plainly. Those de Quincey's
letters were absolute forgeries, forgeries so cunningly contrived that,
in copying one of them, Petroff had proclaimed in his own handwriting
that he had destroyed himself, and there was the evidence to prove it in
black and white. No doubt this miscreant had mixed enough laudanum with
Petroff's supper to kill him, or perhaps he had been stunned with a
blow, and the laudanum subsequently injected in his body.

It was some time before Wendover could pull himself together and look
the actual murderer quietly in the face. He glanced up just in time to
catch a murderous gleam in the other man's eyes, and then it vanished as
quickly as a dream. And now Wendover knew beyond the shadow of a doubt
that behind those glasses Garcia was gazing at him.




CHAPTER XV.--The Rev. James Again.


All that Wendover could do for the moment was to drop his eyes before
those of the man opposite him, as if he himself had done something to be
ashamed of, and could not meet the glance of the other. But, sooth to
say, just at that moment, he was honestly, horribly afraid lest the sham
professor should read in his eyes any suggestion that he had even a
glimmering of the ghastly truth.

He wanted to be alone to think, to work this thing out and grasp the
full meaning of Garcia's latest crime. In spite of the steady state of
his nerves, and the fact that he had been forearmed against crimes of
this kind, he was shaken and shocked, and perhaps for the first time a
little doubtful of his ability to get the best of the terrible force
that was arrayed against him. But he must not show this. He must not let
Garcia imagine for a moment that that clever disguise of his had been
penetrated. He turned his back upon the other and, walking across the
floor of the room, stood for some moments gazing out to sea, with the
air of a man who is battling with himself and fighting against the
horror of it.

He might have turned and thrown himself upon the murderer who was
grinning behind his back. He was far the more powerful man of the two,
and had little to fear in an encounter with Garcia. He might have torn
the disguise from the other's shoulders and accused him there and then
of the terrible crimes which could be laid to his account. But then, if
he did this, where were his proofs? He could only prove that Garcia was
masquerading as an old professor, which could not have connected him in
any way with the deaths of Petroff and de Vince, and besides, there, not
many yards away, lay the evidence of suicide in Petroff's own
handwriting. It had been a diabolically clever plot, and had succeeded,
as such crimes generally do, when backed by matchless courage and
audacity.

And again, such a course as an instant exposure must inevitably lead to
the police being called in, and that was precisely what Paul didn't
want. The greater part of his task was to recover for Zena the fortune
to which she was morally entitled, and if the authorities took a hand in
the game the money might be lost. There was nothing for the moment,
then, but to play for a time, and to assume that Garcia was innocent of
the whole business. When Wendover turned from the window again, there
was nothing but regret in his eyes and a gravity befitting the tragic
occasion.

"This must be a great shock to you," he said.

"Oh, indeed it is," Garcia responded glibly. "I had a great liking for
that poor fellow, and from the very first we have got on well together.
And I am an old man Mr. Wendover, and things like these disturb me
terribly. There will be an inquest, of course, at which I suppose we
shall both have to give evidence, not that there is any mystery about it
at all. That poor fellow committed suicide, undoubtedly."

"Unfortunately, one can come to no other conclusion," Paul said. "He
must have been out of his mind for a long time. How frequently these
things happen, and no one guesses for a moment that the mind is
unhinged. Perhaps you had better leave matters to me. I will see the
police and the doctor, and take everything I can off your hands."

Garcia expressed himself to be exceedingly grateful. He seemed to be
bowed and broken, and utterly unnerved by the tragic event. But ever and
again there was just the suggestion of a triumph in his eyes, just the
fleeting glance of the rascal who has got the best of the other man, and
secretly rejoices in the fact. Evidently he was quite under the
impression that Paul was utterly deceived.

The police came presently, followed by the local doctor, and on the next
morning the usual inquiry took place. It was quite a formal affair,
lasting not more than an hour or two, with none too many questions
asked, for, naturally, there were no suspicions of foul play, and
according to the Coroner, the duty of the jury was plain. At the end of
an hour they brought in the usual verdict, and two days later the
remains of the unfortunate Petroff were laid to rest in the village
churchyard, followed by Wendover, who was the only mourner, the sham
professor declaring that he was too utterly prostrated to attend. He did
not know what he was going to do, he told Paul later on in the day. No
doubt he would get over the shock in time, and meanwhile his work must
stand still until he could find someone to take the place of his late
secretary.

"I shall stay here till to-morrow," he explained, "indeed. I may remain
here for the rest of the summer. I have had a letter from Plymouth in
reply to a telegram of mine, from a friend who is recommending me a
secretary. I think I will go to Plymouth and see this man. I could walk
along the cliff and catch the carrier's cart to Wadebridge."

And that was the last time that Paul saw Garcia, at any rate in the
guise of Professor Galloway. At the end of the second day he had not
returned, and inquiries as to his whereabouts elicited the information
that he had not caught the carrier's cart at all. He had been seen going
along the cliffs in the direction of the village, and there all trace of
him ceased. There was a certain place on the cliffs that pointed to the
act that someone had slipped there, and, later in the day, some
fishermen, scaling the cliffs, had picked up a cap and part of a watch
chain which had been identified as the property of the sham professor,
and later on a pipe and a pocket-book were washed up by the sea. It was
quite evident, therefore, that another tragedy had taken place, and that
the unfortunate professor had been the victim of a distressing accident.

That the body would be recovered the local coastguard was doubtful. It
was rarely, indeed, that the remains of any drowned person ever came
ashore there, and nobody questioned that the professor was dead.

Nobody, at any rate, with the exception of Wendover, who believed
nothing of the kind. He was quite convinced that Garcia had disappeared
in this mysterious manner so that he should not be tracked. And Paul was
convinced of this by the finding of a white wig and a pair of spectacles
which had been half buried in a pile of sand by the side of some gorse
bushes. The whole thing had been arranged by the sham professor to cover
up his tracks. The next day Paul was in London.

For the moment, at any rate, he was at a loose end. He knew he would
have to wait till Garcia showed himself again, which he would be certain
to do before long, seeing that there were two other men to be accounted
for--the man with the orange-colored hair, and the individual with the
throbbing lip. Till these were satisfactorily accounted for it would be
utterly impossible for Garcia to complete his designs upon the safe.

On his way to town, Paul made up his mind what to do. Some instinct told
him that Garcia would not be far away from the Ambassadors' Hotel, and
there he booked a bedroom for a night or two, after which he went
eagerly off in search of Zena.

She had gone out of town for a few weeks to a little cottage in the
country, where she was holiday making and doing a little designing work
at the same time. She welcomed Paul with every sign of delight.

"Oh, I am so glad to see you again," she said. "All the time you have
been away from me, I have not known a moment's peace. I am ever thinking
about that dreadful man, and the danger that you stand in. I am sure
that he knows you, and that, when the others are out of the way, your
turn will come. Paul, do oblige me, do give the whole thing up. I should
be quite happy down here, if you would."

"Give it up! Never!" Paul cried. "Not even for you. Besides, it would be
a cowardly thing, knowing what I do of Garcia. My dear child, you tempt
me terribly. It would be delightful to retire somewhere down here, and
live with you happily ever afterwards. But I have a plain duty before
me. That man must be tracked down and utterly destroyed for the wild
beast that he is. And, after this last affair, I am all the more
determined."

Zena turned pale.

"Another tragedy?" she murmured. "Don't forget that I haven't heard from
you for days."

"Yes, another one. Poor Petroff is no more. Sit down and I'll tell you
all about it."

Zena listened with horror in those splendid eyes of hers to the grim
story of Garcia's latest crime.

"Yes," she said presently. "I suppose you must go on. You would be a
criminal too, if you left that man unpunished. My dearest boy, I am not
thinking about the money at all. Now what are you going to do next?"

"Well, I am putting up, for the moment, at the Ambassadors' Hotel," Paul
exclaimed. "You know, Garcia used to make his headquarters there. It is
a great place where no questions are asked, and he would be
comparatively safe there. I told you all about that cunning dodge of
Garcia's phantom friend, who called himself the Rev. James Ogilvy. Now,
I have a fancy that I shall see the Rev. James Ogilvy again."

It was late in the evening before Wendover found himself peacefully
dining in the hotel. He had taken the precaution of obtaining a seat
where he would be looked after by the same waiter who had given him
information once or twice before. The big dining room was crowded with
guests, and it was a long time before Paul noticed anything out of the
common. Then presently, just before 9 o'clock, a little man in clerical
garb came almost shyly in, and seated himself unobtrusively at table,
just inside the door. He glanced about him in a mild sort of way, and it
seemed to Paul that there was peculiar smile about the corners of his
clean shaven mouth as he looked in his direction. It might be fancy on
his part, but Paul was taking no chances.

"Waiter," he said. "I may be wrong, but I rather fancy I know that
clerical gentleman by the door. Do you happen to know his name? Is he
staying here?"

"Oh, yes," the waiter said. "He frequently stays here. He is a friend of
the millionaire I told you about, Mr. Leo Detmar. He is the Rev. James
Ogilvy."




CHAPTER XVI.--The Man with the Throbbing Lip.


Paul deliberately turned his back upon the man in the clerical attire.
He had found out all he wanted to discover for the moment. He had come
on the track of Garcia again, and he felt that he could afford to wait
for developments. That scoundrel had been over-cunning, and it would be
no fault of Paul's if he gained anything by his last attempt to cover up
his tracks. He was staying in the hotel, too, and occupying, no doubt,
the bedroom that was usually in the possession of the man who passed for
Leo Detmar; in other words, disguised as the Rev. James Ogilvy, he was
sleeping in his own room--the room leading up to the same corridor in
which was situated No. 75, where stood the famous safe. It was no
difficult matter for Paul to make arrangements to have his own bedroom
changed into the same corridor, and this he did without delay.

It seemed to him that all he had to do now was to keep a careful eye
upon Garcia, who would feel perfectly safe in his present guise, and
hang about till the next victim came along. And, doubtless, the next
victim was not far away, or Garcia would not be seated there tranquilly
dining. And that the next victim would be either the orange-haired man,
or the man with the throbbing lip, Paul felt certain as he was that the
sun would rise upon the morrow.

And he had not long to wait, either, for an hour or so later, whilst he
was enjoying a cigar in the smoking room, and keeping his eyes open,
there entered a young man in the guise of a Parsee. His face was dark,
he wore a heavy moustache and beard, and upon his head was a white
turban. And this foreigner had scarcely taken his seat in the
smoking-room before the shrinking figure of the Rev. James Ogilvy came
quietly in. From under his eyebrows Paul could see the malignant joy
that beamed in Garcia's eyes as they fell upon the man in the white
turban. It was only for an instant, however, then the gleam had
vanished, and the sham clergyman lighted a cigarette and subsided behind
a paper in a distant corner of the room. The man in the turban sat down
close to Wendover, and presently the latter spoke to him.

Quite naturally, they glided into conversation. The stranger gave the
name of Ramsi, and volunteered the information that he was a student at
Cambridge University where he hoped to take a degree. Meanwhile he was
enjoying a long vacation with certain friends in London, and in a day or
two was proceeding to Brancaster in Norfolk, where he hoped to spend an
enjoyable month on the golf links.

"You have played the game long?" Paul asked.

"About three years," the Indian explained. "I did not take it up till I
was just forty, which is rather a pity, because that is a little late in
life for so great a game. Still, I have managed to get down to scratch,
and if I am at Cambridge next year, I hope to play for the University.
Perhaps you are a golfer yourself, Mr. Wendover."

"Indeed I am," Paul said. "As a matter of fact, I have played for
Cambridge. And I know the splendid links at Brancaster by heart. I envy
you."

"Then why not come along," the Indian smiled.

"It is just possible that I may," Paul said drily. "That is, in a day or
two. I am not certain of my movements yet. If I can manage it I will run
down for the week-end and have the pleasure of a round with you."

"I should be delighted," the Indian said. "I have all my clubs with me,
and am going there to-morrow."

Paul glanced over his shoulder; he could see that the man in the
clerical attire was following the conversation with a close interest.
Why, he wondered, why was Garcia so keen upon this foreigner, and what
connection could he possibly have had with the Brotherhood? But
presently a little incident happened that shed a more or less obscure
light on the situation. Taking a matchbox from his waistcoat pocket, the
Indian dropped something that tinkled on the floor, and, as Paul stooped
to pick it up, he saw that it was no less than a segment of a gold coin,
marked with a figure three; the sign of the Brotherhood, without a
shadow of a doubt. Without comment, and without explanation, the
stranger thanked him gravely, and restored the fragment to his pocket
again.

Here, on the face of it, was another complication, here apparently was a
fresh member of the Brotherhood of whom Paul knew nothing. There was no
reason at all, so far as he could see, why the Brotherhood should not
embrace every nationality, but it looked like complicating matters, and
Paul was puzzled and a little worried accordingly.

But he showed no sign of what was passing in his mind, till the stranger
rose and declared that it was time for bed. And when Paul casually asked
him the number of his room, he was not surprised to discover that it was
close to the one occupied by the Rev. James Ogilvy. As a matter of fact,
it was back-to-back with his own, for the rooms were built in blocks, so
that the doors on either wing faced into corridors, and high up in each
bedroom, as Paul presently discovered, was a ground glass transam,
evidently inserted for the purpose of ventilation, so that it was
possible, by placing a chair on the dressing table, to get a glimpse
into the next bedroom.

The Indian had disappeared at length, and presently the man, who called
himself the Rev. James Ogilvy, vanished in his turn. He had hardly left
the smoking-room before Wendover was after him. He saw the individual
whom he now knew to be Garcia, creep along the corridor past his own
bedroom and turn down the passage, at the end of which was room No. 75,
Paul turned into one of the little fern-lined alcoves and watched.

At the end of half-an-hour Garcia returned, and closed the door of his
bedroom behind him. Beyond doubt, he had been in the mysterious chamber
for some purpose or another, perhaps to tamper with the lock of the
safe. At any rate, he had been there on some illicit errand, and, before
he slept, Paul decided to know what it was.

It was not a difficult matter, seeing that he himself possessed a
latch-key to open the door, and as it was very late now, and no one was
about, it would be possible to get into the room without arousing
suspicion, or coming in contact with any belated servant. He crept very
cautiously along the corridor till he came to the door. The place was as
silent as the grave, and there was no sign of anyone near. Then, boldly,
Wendover plunged his key in the latch, and entered the room. He fumbled
for a moment or two until he found the switch, and flooded the room with
light. He saw that the heavy curtains were closely drawn, and that it
was not possible for anyone outside to know that the apartment was
tenanted, and then, feeling perfectly secure, he proceeded to look about
him.

The room was neat and clean. There was no sign that it had been occupied
for months. The clock on the mantel-piece had run down, and, so far as
Paul could judge, the safe had not been tampered with. There were no
marks or signs of scratches on the lock, and no signs that anyone had
been there for months, except a tiny trace of grey powder on the
beautifully brushed carpet, a dust of cigarette ash, which had obviously
been dropped there since the room was last in the hands of the cleaner.
Paul smiled as his eyes fell on this, he smiled again as he saw the end
of a cigarette lying in the fire place. This, obviously, had been
recently pitched there by Garcia, in a careless moment, evidently
feeling, no doubt, that there had been no reason for precaution.

"Ah, well," Paul murmured to himself. "These are the little mistakes
that even the greatest criminals make sometimes. Not that it leads to
anything, or tells me much, except that that scoundrel has been here.
Now, I wonder what he was after. He was taking a risk in coming here, as
I have done. However, the safe seems to be all right. I am sufficient of
a detective to see that the lock has not been tampered with, and,
apparently they have nothing to worry about here till the year is up,
which is only a month or two now, by the way. I am frankly puzzled. I
would give a good deal to know who this man is who calls himself
Ramsi--and what connection he has with the Brotherhood. I have no doubt
the name is assumed, indeed, in this extraordinary tangle I shouldn't be
at all surprised to find that he is not a Parsee at all, and that the
whole thing is a disguise. But I suppose his golf is all right, and I
presume he is a student at Cambridge. Otherwise he would never have
challenged me to go down to Brancaster and play with me. Well, I suppose
I shall know in time."

With which Paul turned off the lights, and made his way, with all due
caution, in the direction of his bedroom. He encountered no one by the
way. So far he had made no slip, and once the door of the bedroom was
closed behind him he turned on the lights and sat down on his bed to
smoke a thoughtful cigarette and go over the events of the evening.

He was utterly puzzled. He abandoned his train of thought presently and
proceeded to undress himself. As he turned off his own light, he could
see the glimmer from the bedroom on the far side shining through the
transam, and from this he knew that the Parsee was still up, or perhaps
he was in the habit of burning his light all night. Paul lay on his
back, idly wondering what the man in the bedroom beyond the transam was
doing, whether he was asleep or not, or wondering whether he were
worried in his turn..

Then, with a muttered cry, Paul rolled out of bed, and, as well as he
could in the darkness, and as noiselessly as possible, proceeded to
place a chair on his dressing-table and climb up on it, so that by
pushing the transam a little on one side he could get a glimpse of the
adjoining bedroom. With a little trouble he worked his head so far
forward that he could see the bed with the man lying on it. Apparently
he was fast asleep, for he was breathing regularly, and a gentle snore
broke the silence. His turban was off, and so were the black beard and
moustache, so that his face lay exposed to the light.

"Ah!" Paul exclaimed. "Ah!"

For the sleeper was the man with the throbbing lip.




CHAPTER XVII.--The Indian Speaks.


Wendover came quietly down from his post of observation and crept back
into bed. His discovery had not surprised him; indeed, he had expected
something of the kind, though it had come quicker than he had
anticipated, and it confirmed his worst suspicions. He had not expected,
of course, to blunder straight away upon the identity of the man with
the throbbing lip, but he had looked forward to little trouble in
finding some member of the Brotherhood concealed behind that white
turban and that luxuriant black beard.

Up to a certain point everything was clear enough. There was no doubt
that Garcia, posing as the Rev. James Ogilvy was clear in his mind as to
what he was doing, and, beyond question, he had penetrated the Indian's
disguise. He knew, of course, that he was dealing with the man with the
throbbing lip, and would not rest until he was out of the way. Once this
was done there was only the man with the orange-colored hair to be dealt
with, and Wendover did not doubt that he was not very far away. There
might be others, of course, standing between Garcia and the precious
contents of the safe, but Wendover had always had a feeling that he had
come in contact with every surviving member of the Brotherhood on that
eventful evening nine months ago, when they had all met in room No. 75.
But that was a question for the future.

He lay back in the darkness there for an hour or two, working the matter
out in his mind. He remembered now that the man with the throbbing lip
had been dark and swarthy, and that the restless eyes behind his mask
had been black and piercing. No doubt the man was conscious of his
danger, no doubt since that fateful evening he had adopted eastern dress
and moustache and beard for some pressing reason, and, no doubt, he knew
that his life was in danger. And before Wendover slept he was quite
clear as to what he was going to do.

He came down to breakfast in the morning fully alert, and glanced about
him in search of the shrinking figure of the Rev. James Ogilvy. It came
presently, with every sign of hurry about him, and sat down to a hasty
breakfast. By his side was a timetable, which he studied carefully, and
glanced hastily at his watch from time to time. Then he summoned a
waiter to his side, and ordered a taxi. Wendover made a sign to his own
favorite waiter.

"Look here," he said. "Do you want to earn half-a-crown? Because, if you
do, it's yours."

The waiter grinned amiably.

"Anything you like, sir, of course," he said.

"Then keep your eye on the reverend gentleman over yonder. Unless I am
greatly mistaken he is leaving the hotel this morning. Isn't that so?"

"Oh, yes, sir. I saw his bag and golf clubs come down."

Wendover whistled to himself. He was glad to hear the information as to
the golf clubs, because it cleared the way and explained things
wonderfully.

"Very well," he said. "You follow that gentleman to his taxi, and
ascertain what station he is going from. It is very likely that his bag
is already labelled, and if you can find out where it is labelled to,
I'll give you an extra half-crown. Now then, off you go."

The man came back presently with a smile on his face, and his hand
already outstretched.

"I have got it, sir," he said. "The gentleman has gone to Liverpool
Street station on his way to a place called Brancaster. There was a
label on his bag, and he is going to stay at the Grand Hotel."

Wendover handed over the two half-crowns with a distinct impression that
they were not wasted. He could afford to linger over his breakfast now,
and wait for the evening express, sure in the knowledge that he would
see the Parsee before he left, and discuss matters with him, free from
the prying eyes of the man in clerical attire. He had nearly finished,
and had his cigarette case in his hand when the Indian entered. He
smiled presently, as he saw Wendover.

"You won't change your mind?" he asked. "And come with me. I am going
down by the 5 o'clock train."

"Do you know," Wendover drawled. "I rather think I will. I can put my
business on one side for a day or two, and the weather is very tempting.
Where are you staying?"

"There is only one place to stay in Brancaster," the Indian said. "That
is the Grand Hotel. It's sure not to be full just yet, but perhaps you
had better take the precaution of telephoning for a room. And then, if
you will meet me at Liverpool Street Station at a quarter to five----"

"You can count upon me," Wendover said emphatically.

He went his way presently, and the rest of the morning was spent at the
office of the 'Herald.' He was at Liverpool Street a little before the
time fixed where, with the aid of a half-crown or so, he managed to
secure the exclusive use of a first class carriage to Brancaster. He was
going to take a decided step, he had thought it all out carefully, and
it was shortly after the train had left Cambridge that he turned
abruptly to his dusky companion and put a question that startled him.

"Mr. Ramsi," he said, coolly. "Would you mind telling me your real
name?"

The other man frowned, but from the way he started, Wendover could see
that he had hit the mark.

"I quite fail to understand you," the other said.

"I don't think so," Wendover went on. "Now, mind you, I am not speaking
out of idle curiosity. A great deal depends upon whether you are candid
with me or not. In the first place, your life is in danger."

Again the Indian started violently.

"Are you threatening me?" he stammered.

"Not at all, my dear sir, not at all. On the contrary, I am your friend,
if I can induce you to believe it. I want to help you if I can, and I
want you to help me at the same time. For I, also, am connected with the
Brotherhood."

As Wendover spoke, he took from his pocket the gold segment and showed
it to his companion.

"Unless I am greatly mistaken," he said. "You have a similar section in
your pocket. At least, you had the night that we met in Room No. 75 nine
months ago."

A queer green shade crept over the Indian's face. He wiped the palms of
his hands nervously. Evidently physical courage was not one of his
leading virtues.

"In the name of heaven, who are you?" he whispered.

"I have given you my proper name," Wendover went on. "I am the man who
asked that night for a sum of money for Miss Corroda. I had no business
there, for I am not one of the Brotherhood. On the contrary, I have no
sympathy with them whatever. It doesn't matter how I got there, or my
motives for being present. I was there, and I recognised you by that
nervous upper lip of yours. Oh, yes. I see you have a beard and
moustache now, but you weren't wearing it then, neither were you wearing
it last night when you lay asleep. No, I didn't burgle your room, I
watched you through the ventilator. I dare say you wonder why, and I am
going to tell you. Now, I suppose the name of John Garcia is familiar to
you?"

The Indian blazed out suddenly.

"Ah, yes," he said. "A cold-blooded and poisonous scoundrel whose one
aim and object in life it is to get rid of all of us, and secure the
treasure in the safe for himself. It does not matter how I found it out,
but I know. And I know that several of us have already fallen before
that accursed assassin. And I know that my turn is near at hand. I was
denounced because I would not put my hand to crime. My name, sir, is Ran
Ghose, and I am a Parsee. I am a man of education, as you see, and all
my life I have been mixed up in what you call revolutionary movements.
When I came to England, four years ago, for the course of lectures at
Cambridge University, I joined the Brotherhood. And would to heaven I
had never seen it. Garcia I do not know by sight even, but his hand lies
heavy on me now, as it has upon others even more unfortunate than
myself. For I have been warned, Mr. Wendover, I have been warned. And
that is why I have discarded my Western garb, and gone back to my native
dress, and that is why I have assumed my beard and moustache again,
although these are false, as you know. And that is why I am going for my
little golfing holiday. I ought to be safe at Brancaster. I ought to be
happy and comfortable there for a time, at any rate, because I fancy
that Garcia does not know me as a Parsee, and that therefore, he can not
follow me to the North."

"Ah, that is just where you are mistaken," Wendover said coolly. "I have
every reason to believe that your movements are well known to Garcia.
He, too, is a master of the art of disguise, and he, too, is probably at
Brancaster by this time, staying at the Grand Hotel."

As Wendover spoke, he saw the look of horror in the Parsee's eyes and
the moisture oozing on his forehead.

"God help me," he said hopelessly. "But, Mr. Wendover, you are evidently
a man of courage, which I am not. If you will help me now, I shall be
forever grateful."

"I have come on purpose to help you," Wendover explained. "Perhaps this
time I may lay that scoundrel by the heels, though, on two or three
occasions he has got the best of me with fatal results to some of your
late colleagues. You have to go about, just as if nothing had happened,
and, meanwhile, I shall be watching. Do you remember a timid-looking
elderly clergyman, who came into the smoking room last night?"

"A little man with grey hair, yes."

"Well, that little man with grey hair was John Garcia. He was watching
you, and he was watching me. And comparatively early this morning, with
a portmanteau and a bag of golf clubs he set off for Brancaster, where
he is staying at the Grand Hotel. And now you realize your danger."

"I am quite in your hands," the Parsee said. "Perhaps we had better turn
back."

"And show Garcia that we suspect him," Wendover protested. "Oh, no, we
must go through with it now."




CHAPTER XVIII.--A Fatal Shot.


It was somewhat early in the season, for it wanted a few weeks before
the August rush set in, so that the famous links at Brancaster were not
unusually crowded by holiday visitors, though a large number of the
usual members were present, together with a handful of enthusiasts
staying at the Grand Hotel. A good many of these were personally known
to Wendover, as he himself was a fine player, and his presence was
hailed with enthusiasm, so that for the next day or two, at any rate, he
saw little of Ran Ghose, who, however, was considerably sought after on
account of his own record.

It was just as well, Wendover explained, that they should not be seen
too often in one another's company, as that would only serve to excite
the suspicions of John Garcia, and meanwhile, in his spare time,
Wendover was keeping his eyes open. Garcia himself, pottering about in
his clerical guise, played golf of a sort. It did not matter much what
sort of a performer he was, seeing that there were many elderly
gentlemen down there for the benefit of their health, who sauntered
round the course from time to time with a club or two, and an
experienced caddie, under the delusion they were playing the game. They
were harmless old gentlemen for the most part, and a nuisance usually to
the general body of players, but these were the crosses that golfers
generally had to put up with, especially on such a famous course as
Brancaster. So that John Garcia, innocently sporting behind his black
coat and white collar, pottered about, no doubt arranging some deep laid
scheme for the taking off of the unfortunate Parsee. He always appeared
to be in everybody's way, but he was ever ready to apologize and explain
that he was no exponent of the game, and that he had taken it up solely
on the advice of his medical man.

"You see his game," Wendover said to the Parsee one afternoon, a week or
so later, when they had completed an afternoon round and were seated
over tea in the smoking-room. "He passes as an amiable old gentleman,
always ready to apologise when he gets in anyone's way, and generally
treated as a good-tempered nuisance. And, of course, that is all part of
the fellow's cunning. He is only waiting his chance."

"But what can he do down here?" Ran Ghose asked. "This is the last place
in the world to make an attempt on the life of a fellow creature. It
wouldn't be possible on an open golf links like this, and in the hotel
it would be out of the question. So many of the golfers sit up half the
night playing bridge, there is always someone walking about the
corridors."

"Yes, that's all right," Wendover said. "But we have an unusual man to
deal with. Garcia undoubtedly has a wonderful imagination, as most of
his crimes prove. You may depend upon it, that the attempt will be made
here."

The Parsee sighed unhappily, as he rose restlessly from his chair and
walked out on the verandah. There his caddie and that of Wendover were
waiting with their clubs, hanging round obviously for the usual tip.

"Where did that caddie of yours come from?" Wendover asked. "I thought I
knew all the men who caddied in these parts. He looks like a stranger."

"I think he is," Ran Ghose explained. "He has been a sailor, and has not
long come back from America. I picked him up the second day I was here,
and I have employed him ever since. He is quite a character in his way,
very free and independent, but he has picked up a good knowledge of the
game somewhere, and he has helped me to win more than one match."

Wendover changed the subject abruptly. After all, it did not much
matter, though Wendover had learnt to be cautious and was not disposed
to overlook any danger, however remote. He stood there for a moment,
looking over the verandah towards the last hole where the players were
coming in. Here the course ran parallel with the first two outward
holes, and somewhere about a hundred and twenty yards away from the home
green was a huge sand dune with a great hollow at its base, which
guarded the home green. It was unpleasantly in a line with the first
tee, so that a badly pulled ball might carry right across it, and
consequently, in fact, prove a source of danger.

"Somebody will get hurt there one of these days," Wendover remarked, as
he watched a wild drive from the first tee sail away over the big sand
dune. "If a man got in that hazard, and climbed up to the top
unexpectedly, he might easily get a blow in the face from one of those
practice shots. There, you see what I mean, there are three or four men
now, practising driving in front of the first tee, and a carelessly hit
ball might do the mischief."

"I dare say," the Parsee said. His mind seemed to be very far away, and
his expression was anxious and uneasy. "Are you coming round for a few
more holes?"

"I don't think so," Wendover said. "I rather jarred my wrist this
afternoon coming home, so I'll give it a rest. I'll just saunter back
along the sands."

"Well, I'll take my saddle and practise a few drives," the Parsee said.
"You'll say it is cowardly of me, but I feel absolutely safe out there."

He called to his caddie and strode off down the course whilst Wendover
made off in the opposite direction, till he came to the sandy margin of
the sea, where he sat down quietly to turn matters over in his mind. He
was not satisfied with the progress of events. He was puzzled and
uneasy, and utterly at a loss to gauge the scheme that Garcia was
undoubtedly preparing for the early future.

He had been seated there the best part of an hour when a shout from the
links arrested his attention. It was a cry of alarm that brought him
suddenly to his feet, and impelled him, almost against his will, in the
direction of the club house. Something, undoubtedly, had taken place,
and his mind instantly connected it with the Indian. As he looked ahead
of him, he could see, on the top of the great sand dune, the spare,
ragged figure of Ran Ghose's caddie waving his arms and gesticulating
wildly. He was shouting, too, at the top of his voice, but the breeze
carried the words away, so that Wendover could make nothing of them. He
sprinted across the fairway, and up the slope till he reached the summit
of the big mound. He was there first, but the little knot of men who had
been practising drives behind the first tee were not far behind, so that
they all arrived at the spot more or less simultaneously.

As Wendover looked down into the great hollow beyond he could see the
outline of a figure lying there against the white background of sand,
could see the turban and the brown face with its fringe of black hair
still and set and motionless. And in that moment Wendover knew that the
Parsee was dead. In a sudden spasm of rage and disappointment and anger
he took the caddie by the arm and whirled him downwards till they both
stood there, in the sandy valley, gazing at the unconscious figure lying
so motionless here.

"What is it?" Wendover demanded hoarsely. "Stop that infernal row can't
you, and tell me what happened."

"It was an accident, sir," the caddie stammered. "I was just coming back
with the gentleman, and he drove a ball into here. 'E picked it up and
put it in his pocket, then 'e climbed up the face of the bunker to walk
down the other side. Just as 'e come to the top he give a funny sort o'
cry, then 'e falls right backwards to where 'e is lying, and 'e never
moved again. 'E was 'it right in the middle of the forehead by a stray
golf ball, an' it's my belief 'e was killed on the spot. Anyway, 'e's
dead, sir."

It was even as the dilapidated caddie had said. Ran Ghose lay there in
the hollow of sand stone dead. His turban had not been disarranged, not
a hair of his moustache and beard was out of place. There was a blue
mark in the centre of his forehead with a swelling round it, and as
Wendover laid a trembling forefinger upon it, he realized exactly what
had happened. The skull had been fractured by the impact to the golf
ball, and the man had doubtless died instantly. Beyond question, it was
an accident, and this was confirmed a little later on, when one of the
white-faced golfers admitted that he had pulled a ball, indeed, more
than one over the top of the big hazard, though, so far, there was no
sign of the fatal missile. But, anyway, Ran Ghose was dead, and once
more with that amazing cleverness of his John Garcia had got the best of
the man who had sworn to track him down and bring him to justice.

Wendover followed the body back to the hotel, himself a prey to many
conflicting emotions. It seemed almost impossible to get the best of the
fiend who had so cunningly planned the series of atrocious murders. And
Garcia had covered up his tracks, too, for he was able to prove, a
little later on, that he had been in the hotel gardens all the
afternoon. He appeared to be just as shocked and horrified as everybody
else, but at the same time this alibi of his gave Wendover an idea.

Evidently, for the first time, the man was working with a confederate,
for it was impossible that even Garcia could be in two places at once.
Wendover walked out across the links in the twilight, deeply pondering
over the tragedy. He was going back to the scene of it with some idea of
reconstructing what he knew to be a crime.

And there, down in the sandy hollow, stood the strange caddy who had
witnessed the accident. His back was towards Wendover, and he appeared
to be looking at something in his hand that clinked occasionally as
money will do. And there and then Wendover made up his mind. He was
going to take a chance, indeed, it was necessary to take a chance to get
to the bottom of the suspicion that worried him. He crept on and on
until he stood directly behind the figure, then his left hand shot out,
and he caught the man with a grip of iron by the nape of the neck, at
the same time forcing his head back with his right hand. As he did so,
the ragged cap fell from the man's head, and with a closely-cropped wig
of rusty brown and dingy fluff that served for hair.

And there below it was an orange-colored flame that Wendover instantly
recognised. For the individual in his grasp was the man with the
orange-colored hair!




CHAPTER XIX.--The Hut on the Sands.


Just for a moment Paul Wendover hesitated and felt half inclined to turn
his back on his self-appointed task. He was sick to the very soul of
these murderous adventures of his, disappointed and disgusted that he
had been powerless to stay the hand of John Garcia. How much longer
would they go on, how much longer would it be before he himself was
numbered amongst the list of victims? But this was only for a moment,
then his hand slipped round to the throat of the man with the orange
hair until he was borne gradually backwards and lay on the white and
shifting sand with Wendover's knee on his chest. He had put up a big
struggle for it, but youth and a magnificent physical training were all
on Wendover's side, and, after the first spasmodic effort he had the
other entirely at his mercy.

He was afraid of no interruption, either, for the links were deserted
now, and down there at the bottom of the crater they were entirely
secure from observation.

"Now, you murderous dog," Paul panted. "What have you go to say for
yourself?"

The other man choked and gurgled.

"Let me up, can't you," he said, in a strong American accent. "What do
you mean by this outrage? You don't look like a common thief, either."

Paul relaxed his grip.

"I'm not," he said. "You can pick up that money and put it back in your
pocket. And it's no use you pretending you don't know me, because you
do. You have seen me playing golf here often enough. You are the man who
carried for Mr. Ramsi. Now, sit up and behave yourself, and answer my
questions. What is your name, and where do you come from?"

"No business of yours," the other muttered.

"There you are quite wrong, my friend. It is very much my business. But,
first of all, let us understand one another. I am not concerned to know
why you, an educated man, are masquerading here as a broken-down golf
caddie. What's that? You are a golf caddie? In plain English, that's a
lie. To begin with, golf caddies don't wear fine linen like your's,
under picturesque rags. Besides, you have not been here very long, and
no one knows where you came from. Now, how long have you been in the pay
of the man called Garcia?"

The other started, and Paul could see that he had hit the mark.

"I don't know what you mean," came the muttered response.

"Oh, yes, you do. I am going to have an answer if I have to hammer your
brains out to get it. How long have you been in the employ of John
Garcia? And what did he pay you to murder that unfortunate Parsee?"

Again the orange-haired man started, again his eyes narrowed and his
face paled.

"Who the devil are you?" he growled.

"Oh, never mind who I am," Paul said impatiently. "Though as a matter of
fact, you know very well. You know that I am Mr. Paul Wendover, and that
I came down here with the poor fellow whom you murdered. Yes, I mean it.
You killed that man at the instigation of John Garcia, and you are going
to tell me why."

"Oh, indeed. Perhaps you know how it was done."

"I do," Paul said curtly. "You have been waiting your chance for days.
The whole thing was planned by Garcia, of course, and you merely carried
out his instructions. When Mr. Ramsi was down here, looking for his
ball, you struck him in the centre of the forehead with some blunt
instrument, a blow that fractured his skull, so that he died almost
instantly. Then you pretended that he received his injury from a stray
golf ball, and everybody believed it, the more especially as there have
been several accidents of the kind in the same spot. Now, that is my
theory, and if you are not content with it, you can explain to the
police, in fact, I will see that you do so. You are not bound to
incriminate yourself, but so long as I am your master in strength, I am
not going to let you go until I have a proper explanation, that is,
unless you prefer to make it to the authorities. When you do, I shall
perhaps be able to give my evidence at the same time."

All this was so much bluff on Paul's part, but it had the desired
effect. Suddenly the other man's truculent air vanished, and he sat
there, trembling from head to foot. Wendover was not slow in pushing his
advantage.

"You will gain nothing by your silence," he said. "'I know a great deal
more than I have told you. And, once again, I ask you why you did it.
Why did you make yourself the tool of that man, Garcia? You are a member
of the Brotherhood, the same as he is himself, and it is no part of your
duty to become an assassin, merely because he, the head of the
Brotherhood, tells you to."

The man with the orange hair started violently.

"What do you know of the Brotherhood?" he demanded.

By way of reply. Paul took the gold disc from his pocket, and held it up
before the uneasy eyes of his companion.

"I think that is sufficient proof I know what I am talking about," he
said. "And, unless I am greatly mistaken, you have a similar fragment in
your pocket at this moment. The last time we met was at the Ambassadors'
Hotel about nine months ago. And, since then, many things have happened.
Many members of the Brotherhood have fallen; for instance, De Vince and
Petroff, and another called Leo Detmar, who was found, though you may
not know it, in a corridor at the Ambassadors' Hotel. Now, you may
regard all these tragedies as accidents, but I don't. Those men died
because John Garcia willed it so, in plain English they were foully
murdered by him, so that he might achieve what you are all after."

The red-haired man looked up suddenly.

"Go on," he said hoarsely. "I begin to see daylight. I am beginning to
understand things which have puzzled me for a long time. Of course, I
knew all these things, we all do, for the matter of that, but I was
under the impression that the foreign police had been at work. Do you
suggest that I am the tool of John Garcia?"

"I don't suggest anything of the kind," Paul said, coolly. "I know it.
He has got tired of slaughter himself, perhaps this succession of crimes
has tried even his iron nerve. He may have a suspicion that he is
watched, in which he is not far wrong, and that is why he arranged for
an alibi. You know what an alibi is, don't you? Yes, of course you do.
If anything had gone wrong, he would have been able to shift the blame
on you, and go quietly away, rejoicing in the fact that you will hang
for this crime, and that another obstacle was removed from his path.
Then, unless I am greatly mistaken, the treasure behind the time lock
will be his."

The man with the orange hair whistled.

"So that's the game, is it?" he cried. "And I was such a fool that I
never suspected it. Now, see here, mister, I am entirely in your hands,
the game has gone wrong, and you can hang me if you like. I came here
prepared to take the risk, and I would do it again, but I don't want to
find myself dancing at the end of a rope till I have got even with John
Garcia. You see, it's like this, I have been a member of the Brotherhood
for years. I used to live in Scotland at one time before I emigrated to
the States with my wife and child. I was a happy and industrious
engineer then, with what looked like a fine future before me. I dare say
if I had stayed in Scotland all would have been well, but I was an
ambitious chap, and Europe wasn't big enough for me. So I went to
America, and it was the worst day's work I ever did in my life. I was
robbed of two or three inventions, then I got mixed up in a big strike
and, through no fault of my own, found myself in gaol. When I came out
again my wife was dead, and so was the child. They had been starved to
death whilst I was being punished for a crime that I never committed.
And that made a devil of me. From that moment my hand was against
everybody's. I hated everyone who was better off than myself. Then I got
into the Brotherhood, and I have been one of the big men in it ever
since. I have been ready for everything. I was prepared to commit murder
on the least provocation. I hated all capitalists, and I hated the man
in the street, who toadied to and flattered him."

As the man with the orange-colored hair went on his eyes gleamed, and he
beat the air with his fists like one who is almost beside himself. For
here was the true fanatic, the so-called social martyr who is ready to
give up his life for the cause; an anarchist, ready made and prepared to
wade through blood to gain his end. Wendover watched him with curiosity,
and saw how deeply moved he was and encouraged him.

"I think I understand," he said. "As a matter of fact, you are just the
sort of man Garcia wanted for his purpose. But what had the unfortunate
Parsee done?"

"Betrayed the cause, or so I was told. Refused to carry out one of their
mandates. Declined to carry out a commission and fled to England. Here
he changed his name and assumed his native dress, and only attended our
meetings disguised in his mask so that he could get information that he
could use for his own safety. But Garcia found out. Garcia tracked him
down and followed him here. Then I came on the scene. It is getting a
little chilly here, don't you think if you will come with me as far as
my hut, I will go on with my story."

"Where is this place?" Wendover asked.

"The ruined coastguard station on the edge of the beach. I have got a
few sticks and two rooms there, and nobody interferes with me. They look
upon me as a wandering golf caddie who is perfectly harmless, and as
there are none too many caddies they don't worry me."

"Lead the way," Wendover said curtly.

They came presently to the melancholy ruin that stood just above high
water mark amongst the lonely sand dunes on the far side of the course.
Here was a broken table and chair, and an apology for a bed in one
corner.

"Why do you stay here?" Wendover asked.

"Because my task is not finished," the other said.




CHAPTER XX.--The Man with the Butterfly Net.


Wendover looked sharply into the face of his companion. There was
something almost sinister in the suggestion.

"What do you mean by that?" he asked.

"Well, I don't know; but I believe that there is someone else. Garcia is
not the man to tell people much, but I am told to wait instructions.
Still, as far as I can gather, the Parsee was not the only traitor."

"Traitor," Wendover scoffed. "That is what you call them, is it? Anybody
would think that Garcia and his murderous gang represented some State
bent upon punishing some one guilty of treason. I tell you, my friend,
that the Parsee was a harmless individual, a dreamer of dreams, who
lived and died under the delusion that he was born to set the world
straight. And I tell you that Garcia deliberately trapped Ramsi. He
wanted the Indian out of the way, the same as he wants you out of the
way."

"I am beginning to believe that he does," the man with the
orange-colored hair said thoughtfully. "Mister, it's rather a pity we
didn't meet before."

"It is," Wendover said. "I should have saved you from a cold-blooded
murder if I had."

The other looked up with a challenge in his eyes.

"Here, drop that," he said. "But I don't know, perhaps you are right in
what you think. Do you believe that it was I who killed the nigger?"

"I have already told you so," Wendover said.

"Well, I didn't. You've got it all wrong. I came up here, because Garcia
sent for me. He sent me the sign that I dare not disobey. Not that I
knew it was Garcia till I got here. But why did he send for me? He sent
for me, because he knew that I had been an enthusiastic golfer in my
youth, and because he wanted me to pose as a caddie here. Well, that was
easy enough, as you know, but he didn't tell me any more, not till the
day of the Parsee's death. He's not that sort of man. I'm not sure yet
that it is Garcia that I am dealing with, though I have been pretty sure
in my mind all along. You see, it's like this: He came to me here and
reminded me of my oath to the Brotherhood, the oath of implicit
obedience to every order that comes from Headquarters. And, because I
thought the man was a traitor, I obeyed. A man like me who has his hand
against everybody----"

The speaker trailed off into a wild tirade of abuse against humanity
generally, and the old insane gleam was dancing in his eyes again.
Wendover pulled him up sharply.

"Never mind about that just now," he commanded.

"Beg your pardon, mister. I always go off like that when I begin think
of my wrongs. I was to lure the Parsee into that big sand bunker on the
first opportunity when those players came out to practise their tee
shots after tea. And I did it, as you know. As we were coming back, I
suggested to the Indian that he should try and carry that big bunker
from an impossible distance, and he tried it. It didn't come off, as I
knew, but the ball trickled into the bunker instead. And when we came up
with it, Garcia was lurking there, hidden from sight with a lasso in his
hand. Garcia is a South American, and he can do anything with a lasso.
And what do you think he did? He threw the noose weighted with lead at
either end and struck the nigger on the forehead. He did it
deliberately, of course, with the intention of killing the man, and he
did. He knew exactly what was going to happen, and he was not far wrong.
The Indian dropped like a stone and was dead in a second. Then I raised
a cry, and Garcia slipped off unseen by anybody. And that's the way we
got rid of a traitor. But I had no hand in it, mister, except to cover
Garcia's tracks, and I give you my word, I hadn't the least notion what
was going to happen until the whole thing was over. Not that it would
have made much difference if I had. Because, you see, the man is a
traitor, and I have suffered enough at the hands of that class. I tell
you that my wife and child----"

The speaker threw up his hands again and began to rave and shout like
one beside himself.

"Will you drop it?" Wendover commanded. "Man alive, can't you see the
peril you stand in? Don't you know that in the eyes of the law you are
as guilty of this crime as Garcia is himself. You would be hanged
without mercy if I only spoke the word. But you are, apparently, only a
mere tool in this business, and I don't want to be too hard on you. Now,
listen to me. You have been made use of in the same way as you were when
in America. You are the class of man who always pulls the chestnuts of
the cunning scoundrels who play for their own ends. And this is what you
are doing now for John Garcia. You are his mere puppet. Why? Because he
has one object in life only, and that is to gain possession of the money
in that safe. He has already got several of the Brotherhood out of the
way, and now that you have served his purpose your turn is at hand, as
sure as the sun rises on the morrow. When you are all dead, and there
are no witnesses left, which will be before the next meeting of the
Brotherhood, Garcia will turn up in that mysterious room alone and fill
his pockets with the contents of the safe. And now you understand what
is going on?"

The other man rubbed his eyes as if he were slowly coming to
consciousness after a long sleep.

"I begin to see, mister," he said. "Yes, I believe you are right. But,
see here; where do you come in? My instructions tell me that there is
another traitor in the way yet. Do you know who he is?"

Wendover started suddenly. This was a new light to him, but it was
getting plainer every moment.

"Why, I am," he exclaimed. "I was a fool that I didn't see it before. So
it is part of your duty to get me out of the way as well as the Parsee.
And you are the instrument who is going to help to do it. Well,
forewarned is forearmed. Now, doesn't it occur to you that your turn is
coming as well? Are you going to submit blindly to be treated in this
fashion, or are you going to join hands with me, and help to bring
Garcia to justice. Do you believe that man's story or mine?"

"I am with you," the orange-haired man said hoarsely. "I'm with you,
mister, all the time. It puzzles me how an English gentleman, like
yourself, has got mixed up with this business, and how you found out all
about it."

"Never mind that," Wendover said. "I went amongst that nest of criminals
to see justice done. But you were there on the last meeting of the
Brotherhood. I recognise you by the color of your hair. You were there
just opposite me. I am the man who brought Miss Corroda's case before
the Brotherhood, and I it was who obtained that money for her. She has
been most infamously treated."

"That's right," the other man said. "And I'll help you, as far as she's
concerned, with pleasure. I met old man Corroda in the States some years
ago, before he made all that money, and he was very kind to me. And if I
hadn't been a fool, I should have seen what was going on. But, in my
eyes, the Brotherhood was a sacred thing, a band of genuine patriots
gathered together to right wrongs all over the world. And when all that
money came along, it seemed to me that there was nothing to stop us. But
I see differently now. What do you want me to do, mister. How can I
help?"

"Tell me your right name first," Wendover asked.

"Well, call me Jabez Martin. That will do as well as any other, and
besides, it happens to be my right name. And now, what's the next move,
Mr. Wendover?"

Paul would have given a good deal to have been able to say. Had he acted
on the impulse of the moment, he would have gone straight away from
there and denounced Garcia to the police. But, for the moment, at any
rate, there was nothing to be gained by that. To begin with, the
authorities would have demanded something in the way of proof, and that,
for the present, he was not in a position to give them. He could only
wait and watch, and hope for the best. He could only keep his eyes open
and guard against the coming tragedy as far as he was concerned. And any
day the blow might fall.

"I confess," he said, "that I hardly venture to strike again till some
days have elapsed. Therefore you had better go on as if nothing had
happened, behave as if you had not seen me, and gain all the information
you can. Meanwhile, you can assume your disguise again, and keep up the
role of a golf caddie. And if I want to see you, I can easily run across
from the hotel here. And if you want to speak to me, you will have
plenty of opportunities of doing so. But don't forget that we have a
tiger to deal with."

Wendover turned away and made his way slowly along the sand dunes in the
direction of the hotel. Coming towards him in the distance, was a figure
that was familiar to him, the well-known outline of Garcia, in his
clerical garb, carrying what apparently appeared to be a butterfly net
with a specimen case slung over his shoulder.

Wendover dropped behind a clump of long grass and lay there till Garcia
was almost upon him. From time to time the latter darted ahead as if in
eager quest of specimens, then he paused and looked furtively around
him. There was an evil grin on those thin lips of his, and a lurid light
in his cunning eyes. Apparently he was bent on some mischievous errand,
working towards his quarry slowly and cautiously, as if fearful that
someone might be watching him from the hotel through a pair of glasses.
And so, by slow degrees, he worked his way along the sand dunes till he
came to the ruined house, in front of which he stood for a moment, and
then slowly entered.

Wendover rose to his feet, and retraced his footsteps. If there was
anything serious taking place within the hut then most assuredly he
would be there to see.




CHAPTER XXI.--The Quarrel.


The light was still fairly strong, so that it was possible for Wendover
to see what was going on inside the room. Taking advantage of the scrub
outside, he crept on his hands and knees near enough to get a view of
the open door and the dingy room beyond. He could see that Martin was
seated there with his head in his hands, lost to his surroundings, and
evidently plunged into deep thought. He looked up in a dull,
uncomprehending way as Garcia came forward, then something like fear and
loathing crept into his eyes, and he rose to his feet.

"What are you doing here?" he demanded. "What do you want? Haven't I
done enough for you? It's all very well for you to have the command of
money to get about from place to place, but what of me? You know that I
am penniless, you know that I had to walk part of the way here, and you
have seen to it that I have to live on the few shillings I earn. And you
promised me when the business of the Parsee was finished that you would
give me money and let me go."

"Presently, presently," Garcia said soothingly. "But your work is not
yet finished. I told you there was much yet to be done. And what are you
doing like that? Where is your cap, and what has become of your wig? Are
you mad that you go about like this? If anyone were to see you now all
sorts of suspicions might be set on foot. You are a wandering golf
caddie, remember; a broken-down man who gets a precarious living by
doing odd jobs. Don't you understand that?"

"Oh, I understand that," Martin said sullenly. "Perhaps I understand
more than you give me credit for."

A sudden anger flamed into Garcia's eyes. His thin lips compressed like
a steel trap.

"Don't you threaten me!" he said. "'And don't you dare to run counter to
the wishes of the Brotherhood. Remember that you are here on duty. You
have instructions that must be carried out to the letter, or you will
take the consequences, and I need not point out what those consequences
are. The man who disobeys instructions from headquarters is a traitor,
just as much as the Parsee was, and he suffers accordingly. Now sit down
again and listen to me."

Martin dropped suddenly into his seat

"Go on," he muttered. "Go on. John Garcia--that is, if your name is John
Garcia.

"My name," the other said sternly, "to most people, is the Reverend
James Ogilvy. I am a harmless old scientist, who plays golf for the
benefit of his health, and collects butterflies as a hobby. But I am
John Garcia, and the head of the Brotherhood, and all who belong to it
must obey my slightest word. You have had your instructions under the
seal of the Brotherhood, and they must be carried out to the letter. You
have already seen what it means to disobey."

"I have seen a man foully murdered if that is what you mean," Martin
retorted. "But he was a harmless chap, that Parsee, and if I liked to
speak----"

"Well, speak then. Go and denounce me to the police. Tell them the story
of what happened in the great sand bunker. Go and do it now, and I won't
put up my hand a yard to stop you. Tell them who John Garcia is. Oh,
pooh you fool: John Garcia laughs at the police--he has been laughing at
them for years. They will never lay their hand upon him. They think,
even at the present moment, that he is in prison in Geneva."

"I thought so, too," Martin muttered.

"Well, then, he isn't. Look here!"

As Garcia spoke, he took the clerical hat from his head, and removed his
spectacles. It was only a little thing but it altered him almost beyond
recognition. The cruel little eyes were full of menace, the thin lips
were drawn in a straight line, and Martin suddenly weakened.

"I am John Garcia," the man said. "Cast your mind back to a few months
ago, to the last meeting of the Brotherhood. You were there, and heard
all that happened, you were told that John Garcia was in gaol, and that
the man who represented him had in his possession proofs of the
treacherous interference of a certain outsider. You saw those proofs put
in the safe. They were put in the safe for me, John Garcia himself,
because I, for my part, did not want even the Brotherhood to know that
my place in prison had been taken by a trusty comrade----"

"Leo Detmar," Martin blurted out.

Garcia's eyes gleamed angrily.

"Oh, so you know that much, do you," he said. "Not that it very much
matters. Now, Leo Detmar is dead----"

"Murdered," Martin cried. "Murdered."

"Oh, so you know that, too. Well, perhaps you shall help me to avenge
him some day. But before that happens I have a score to settle with the
man who betrayed me to the Geneva police. And you are going to help me."

"Oh, I am, am I?"

"Yes, you are. Now that man was present at the meeting of the
Brotherhood, masked like the rest of us, with his credentials in his
pocket, though how he got there and where he obtained those credentials
from puzzles even me. Still, he was there, and I know his name. He is an
English journalist called Paul Wendover. He is staying here at the
present moment. You know him as well as I do."

"I do," Martin muttered. "What of him?"

"What of him? That is my most dangerous and implacable enemy. He has
made it his business to thwart and oppose me at every possible turn. He
has been in contact with me over and over again without knowing it;
indeed, he has not the least idea who the Reverend James Ogilvy really
is. But he will find out to his cost before long. He'll be sorry that he
ever interfered with me. He'll be sorry that he ever met Zena Corroda,
and made it his special business to restore her fortune to her. That man
is the most dangerous enemy the Brotherhood has. He has got to be
removed."

"And I am to help, I suppose?" Martin asked. "Well, I decline to do
anything of the sort. No more bloodshed for me; do your dirty work
yourself."

"Then you refuse?"

"Then I refuse. What do I care what happens to me? I am almost a
starving man, without a friend in the world, and he who puts a bullet
through me is doing me a real kindness. Besides, I have met the man you
speak of and I like him. He is an honest and straightforward English
gentleman, and I am sure he would befriend me if I told him everything.
Therefore, John Garcia you can go to hell and do your work in your own
way. I defy you."

Martin sprang to his feet, and stood facing Garcia, with his eyes
blazing and a look of determination on his face. Just for an instant it
appeared to the watcher as if the men were about to fly at one another's
throats. Then, apparently Garcia thought the better of it, for he
laughed irritably, and dropped to his seat again.

"Very well," he said. "If you won't help me, I can't force you. But do
you know what the consequences are? I shall have to report you to the
Brotherhood."

"You can't do it," Martin laughed defiantly. "You can't do it, because
there are none of the Brotherhood left. They are all dead, except
yourself. They have all been murdered, or hanged, or otherwise got rid
of----"

"Got rid of by me?" Garcia demanded.

"I didn't say that, I said they had been got rid of. And so they have.
We are the two remaining ones, and I don't count. And perhaps I also
shall be beyond trouble before the next annual meeting takes place. And
if I am, then it will be a fine thing for you."

"What do you mean by that?" Garcia demanded.

"Oh, well," Martin laughed scornfully. "I think you know what I mean.
There is a fine fortune waiting in that safe for the last lucky survivor
of the Brotherhood. A fortune that could be devoted, no doubt, to
furthering our aims. And, on the other hand, you mightn't do anything of
the sort. You might decide to keep it yourself, and live happy and
comfortable ever afterwards."

Garcia listened with an indifferent expression on his face. He snarled,
as a man does who listens with toleration to the weaknesses of other
people. But Wendover had a pretty fair idea of what was passing through
his mind. It was no part of his scheme just now to drive the
orange-colored haired man any further. When he spoke again it was quite
mildly.

"I am sorry to hear you talk like that," he said. "Because you are doing
me a great injustice. And, after all, it is just possible that you may
be the sole survivor. However, this is all wasting time. If you won't
help me, you won't, and there's an end of it. But there's one little
thing I should like you to do for me before I leave here to-morrow. Do
you know that big house, standing in its own grounds about three miles
inland on the far side of the links? You do, of course. Well, that house
belongs to a famous oculist, who comes down here to play golf. What's
that? You've seen him. Very well, then I may tell you that a friend of
mine is going to call upon him to-morrow afternoon by appointment, with
a view to having his eyes tested. He will come back across the golf
links to the hotel, where a note from me awaits him, and I want you to
show him the way. If you will stand out there on the dunes at that time,
you will see him come in your direction, and will offer to show him the
way. He is very short-sighted, and you will recognise him by his blue
glasses. No, it doesn't matter about his name. All you have to do is to
take him to the hotel, never mind why. He is one of us, and that is
sufficient reason for you."

"Oh, I'll do that," Martin said. "But that's the last. Then I think I
shall get away myself."

Wendover rose to his feet and made his way cautiously towards the hotel.
He had found out a good deal. He was satisfied that he was safe for the
present, and he made up his mind that he could not trust either of these
men. Still, there was something in the wind, and he would not be far off
to-morrow afternoon when Martin met the stranger with the blue glasses.




CHAPTER XXII.--A Long Shot.


The Reverend James Ogilvy wandered about the smoking-room of the Grand
Hotel, talking golf with one visitor or another, as if he were really
what he pretended to be--a kindhearted, amiable, old nuisance, who
played golf for the sake of his health, and devoted all the rest of
innocent life to the collection of butterflies. He seemed to go almost
out of his way to make himself agreeable to Wendover, who deemed it
prudent to accept these advances in a friendly spirit. It was not for
him to give Garcia the slightest clue that his real identity had been
disclosed. So they sat side by side in the smoking-room, as if they had
been friends of years' standing.

"Are you really going to-morrow?" Wendover asked.

"I am sorry to say I am," the other bleated. "I have had a most
enjoyable time in this wonderful air, and my golfing holiday has done me
a world of good. Not that I shall ever be a player, Mr. Wendover, no.
And I dare say most of you players have found me a great nuisance, but
you will make allowances for a very old man, whose one regret it is that
he has taken up the game too late in life."

It was all so naturally done that Wendover could not fail to admire it.
For that murderous rascal was the innocent country clergyman to the
life, and, no doubt, he was inwardly chuckling to himself at the success
of his pose. And yet, under that placid exterior was the heart of a
tiger and the tenacity of a ferret. Still, his eyes were smiling as he
beamed benignly on the assembled golfers.

"Yes, I am going to-morrow," he said. "But I hope to come here again
before long. I should not go now, had I not urgent business in the
north."

"You go by the afternoon train?" Wendover asked.

"Oh, no. I go in a little car of mine. It comes for me here just after
lunch. I drive it myself; perhaps a stupid thing to do at my time of
life, but I am very careful, and never exceed twenty miles an hour.
Besides, a friend of mine is being brought here in the car to see Dr.
Smart, the great eye specialist, who has kindly offered to give him an
hour or two to-morrow afternoon. Then my friend comes on here to stay
for a day or two in my place. He is nearly blind, so he will need to be
brought here. I have arranged for one of the golf caddies to meet him
and bring him here, and perhaps, Mr. Wendover, you will be so kind as to
take him for a little walk occasionally."

Wendover muttered something to the effect that he would be delighted.
But, in the back of his mind, he was wondering what all this was leading
to, and what cunning scheme Garcia was working out. He did not believe
for a moment that that rascal was in the least interested in any patient
of Dr. Smart, so that he did not even trouble to ask the name of the
newcomer. He would be near enough tomorrow afternoon when the stranger
came along, in company with Martin, and it would go hard if he did not
find out for himself.

"That's very good of you, Mr. Wendover," Garcia said. "And now, I wish
you good night and good-bye. As I have a fairly long journey before me
to-morrow, I must go to bed early. I hope that we shall meet again."

The last words dropped from Garcia's lips with what seemed to Wendover
like a ring of menace in them. But it was no part of his policy to
notice this, and perhaps, after all, it was only fancy.

He was down early in the morning, only to find that Garcia's little car
had come along, and that the Reverend James Ogilvy had departed in the
direction of the North Road. But he could not ascertain that anybody
came in the car, which had been brought from a neighboring garage, nor
when he saw the famous oculist on the links later on in the morning
could he ascertain by a few guarded enquiries that the latter was
expecting to see a patient. This discovery rather startled Wendover, and
left him a little more puzzled than ever. He finished his morning round,
and presently lunched alone in the Club House. For the next hour or two,
he wandered about the links, trying, more or less vainly, to fit the
pieces of the puzzle together, then, a little before four o'clock, he
went back to the hotel to get out his motor cycle. He invariably took
this with him on golfing holidays, with a view to an occasional visit to
some distant links, for there were many of these along the north-east
coast, and most of them were well known to him.

To get to the top of the golf links on his Indian machine he had to make
a rather wide detour of some four or five miles before he struck the
sand dunes again, and it was past four o'clock before he wheeled the
machine into a clump of bushes and sat down in a sandy hollow to smoke a
cigarette and wait upon events. From where he was seated he had a full
view of the large house which was occupied by Dr. Smart, and which lay a
mile or so ahead of him, so that he was tolerably sure of the fact that
no one could reach or leave the house without his knowing it. It was
very lonely and quiet there, nothing but a succession of little sand
hills, stretching along an arm of the bay, with the wide expanse of flat
country beyond. There was no road here, nothing but an occasional sheep
track, and, at this time of the year, most of the flocks had been driven
further inland, so that, but for an occasional sea bird, and a rabbit or
two, Wendover had the whole landscape to himself. For a long time he sat
there, thinking things over, wondering when this tangle of blood and
slaughter was going to finish, and when he would be free from the danger
that for months now had been hanging over him day and night. He was
getting impatient, too, for the delay and the solitude of that lonely
spot were pressing on his nerves, and he was longing for the moment of
action to arrive.

Then, presently, it seemed to him that he could see some dark object
moving along the main road about a mile or two away. A little later, the
object resolved itself into a car, which, apparently, was being driven
by one man, though it was too far away for Wendover to make sure of the
point, and he was annoyed with himself because he had forgotten to bring
a pair of glasses with him. If he had had the foresight to do so, he
would have been able to distinguish the driver of the car. Then the car
pulled up, apparently under the wall that ran round the big house, and
the driver got out. He was lost to sight for a little while, no doubt he
had passed through the gateway into the grounds. And then as Wendover
turned to glance behind, and make sure that he was still alone, he
thrilled as he saw something moving amongst the sand dunes about a
hundred yards to the left. But he smiled to himself a moment later as he
made out the outline of the man with the orange-colored hair.

"Upon my word, my nerves are playing all sorts of tricks with me this
afternoon," Wendover muttered. "Of course, Martin will be there. He's
there on purpose. And here am I trying to hide myself, forgetting all
the time that he will be close at hand. I wonder if he has spotted me?"

But evidently the man with the orange-colored hair had not noticed
Wendover, for he sat there, on the top of a heap of sand, with his face
turned in the direction of the Doctor's house. Wendover crouched a
little lower.

"I'll not let him know I am here," he decided to himself. "After all, he
doesn't know what I heard yesterday when I was lying outside the hut,
and there is no reason why I should trust any of these people any
further than is necessary. It's just likely, too, that I've come on a
fool's errand. It is possible, after all, that Garcia really has got a
short-sighted friend who wants to consult the doctor. It is possible
too, that Martin might have changed his mind, in which case he and
Garcia will have a fine chance of getting rid of me, if they discover me
in this lonely spot. Therefore, I think I'll just lie low, and play Brer
Rabbit."

He carefully extinguished his cigarette, and made himself as
inconspicuous as possible, lying so close that he could observe
everything going on about him without being seen himself. He could see
Martin plainly enough, and all across the intervening sand dunes to the
spot where the motor car was standing. Then, presently, a figure emerged
from the doctor's house, and came slowly and hesitatingly along the road
till it suddenly branched towards the links. It was some fifteen hundred
yards away from where Wendover was now, plainly picked out in the strong
sunlight, and, so far as Wendover could make out, the figure carried a
long walking stick in his hands. As the man with the flame-colored hair
caught sight of it he moved forward in the direction of the new-comer.
Then the stranger seemed to stand still for a moment, as if undecided
what to do next. He carried his stick in his hands, crosswise, then
stood with shoulders hunched and feet apart. Wendover broke out into a
sudden cry. But it was too late, for he could see a tiny puff of smoke,
followed by a noise no louder than the crack of a whip, and at the same
instant Martin threw up his hands and fell face downward in the sand
without a sound.

He had been shot through the heart; he lay there stone dead, as Wendover
knew before he could wriggle across the intervening sand on his hands
and knees. In the course of his adventures he had seen a man die before,
and he knew those symptoms only too well.

Martin lay there, stone dead; he must have died instantly. Just for a
moment Wendover hesitated as to what to do next. Should he go back to
the hotel and give the alarm, or should he clear out without saying a
word to anyone? A moment later this question was decided for him, for
the man who fired the shot had climbed into the car, and was now fast
receding into the distance.

A sudden light broke on Wendover.

"By Heavens," he cried. "That is Garcia's car, and Garcia himself. He
has got Martin out of the way, and he would have had me out of the way,
too, by this time if yonder poor fellow had not defied him. I'll follow
him up; I'll track him down, and put an end to this once and for all."

The coast was clear now, so that Wendover raced across to where his
motor bike was hidden, and mounted without delay. He could cover his
fifty or sixty miles an hour easily; he would be on the track of the car
before it had gone many miles. He had only the clothes he stood up in,
and a few pounds in his pocket, but he was not thinking of that so much
as vengeance.




CHAPTER XXIII.--A Stern Chase.


The blood was pounding in Wendover's head, and the red light was in his
eyes as he moved along in the direction of the car. Just for the moment
all prudence had gone to the winds, and if he had come up with Garcia at
that particular moment then indeed it would have gone ill with that
murderous foreigner. For Wendover was tired and weary of all this
slaughter, so much so that he longed to be in some foreign country,
where the arm of the law is not so long, so that he might have taken
matters in his own hands and ended Garcia's career once and for all.

It was only for a moment or two, and then he was himself again. He set
his 'Indian' going, and sped swiftly along the smooth road in the
direction of the car which he knew, beyond the shadow of a doubt, held
the man who was responsible for all this shedding of blood. He knew,
too, that, given ordinary conditions, he would be up alongside Garcia
within the course of half-an-hour, because the car in front was a small,
two-seater affair, and the 'Indian' motor cycle was capable of anything
up to eighty miles an hour. Moreover, the country was quiet in this
part, with little or no traffic on the road, so that there was no danger
so far as the public were concerned, and no probability of police traps
whatever. And again, pursuit was the last thing Garcia would be
expecting. No doubt he was hugging himself with the delusion that his
carefully-laid plans had been entirely successful, and that no one had
seen the fatal shot fired. Probably Garcia's first idea had been to get
rid of both his enemies at the same time, but apparently he had
abandoned that part of the programme, when he had discovered that Martin
was not so amenable to reason as he had expected. Therefore, he would
probably go quietly along the road to Hull, or some such big seaport
town, where he would be lost to view for the moment, and where he could
sit quietly down and plan the destruction of the last life that stood
between him and the treasure in Room No. 75.

If Wendover had been a little less carried away by his feelings, he
would probably have contented himself with following Garcia at a
reasonable distance, and quietly making sure of his whereabouts for
making the next move. But the swift motion through the air, and the
rushing speed of his 'Indian,' did nothing to smooth down his anger. He
sped on mile after mile, utterly reckless as to the future. It had not
occurred to him, either that the silent way in which he disappeared from
the Grand Hotel might cause enquiries to be made, and perhaps some
suspicious individual might connect him with the body of the golf
caddie, which must be found before long, lying there, on the sands. But
all this, Wendover decided, would keep. He trusted to his native talent
to get him out of that.

Then, presently, as he swept suddenly round a curve, he almost ran into
the car that was jogging quietly along the road in front of him. It was
too late to turn back, too late to try and hide himself, for Garcia
glanced over his shoulder and the eyes of the two men met. And in those
of Garcia Wendover could see a look of absolute fear. It was fear that
gleamed behind those spectacles, and it was a very white and ghastly
face that showed under the clerical hat. Evidently Wendover was
beginning to get upon his enemy's nerves, evidently the man was
beginning to feel that here was a force he could not shake off. He
accelerated his speed, and shot ahead just a little and then it seemed
to Wendover that the man he was after was throwing something out of the
back of the car.

He found himself speculating idly as to what it was, but he was to know
only too soon. A second later there was a sound of a quick report, and
the 'Indian' slowed up suddenly with a big puncture in the front tyre.

There was no help for it, and Wendover cursed aloud as he dismounted and
surveyed the damage, which meant a delay of at least an hour. He might
have known, he told himself, that the cunning scoundrel in front of him
would be prepared for every emergency of the kind. Then he set himself
doggedly down to make good the mischief which took him rather longer
than he anticipated, and then he pushed on again to pick up the tracks
of the man in front of him. But this was a slow and tedious process, and
it was nearly 10 o'clock before he rode into Hull, and with the aid of a
friendly policeman or two located the man he was after in the Queen's
Hotel. He put up here himself at a smaller house, and called for the
meal which he so badly needed. Then he sat down to a cigar and a cup of
coffee to think out his position.

All he had was a pound of two in his pocket and the grey flannel suit
that he stood up in. His first business was to call up the proprietor of
the Grand Hotel at Brancaster.

"It's Mr. Wendover speaking," he said. "That you, Mr. Jackson? Oh, yes,
I came along this afternoon for a spin on my motor-cycle, and went
further than I intended. I had a bad breakdown on the way, and decided
to push on to Hull. I am here, at the King's Hotel, and I may have to
stay a day or two because my machine has been rather badly damaged, and
I think I shall wait until it is repaired. What's that? Oh, yes, please
send on my portmanteau and odds and ends the first thing in the morning.
Shall you keep my room? Well, no, I don't think so, you see, I may be
detained here longer than I expect, and I'll take my chance. My kind
regards to all my friends there, and I hope they are well. Nothing out
of the common happened, I suppose? No fresh records established, eh?"

The reply of the hotel proprietor was re-assuring--nothing had happened,
and evidently no tragic discovery had been made, or he would have said
so. With an easier mind, Wendover attacked the telephone again, and
called up the editor of the 'Daily Herald' in London, whom he got in a
quarter of an hour, it was a somewhat long message, but it was through
at length, and Wendover retired to bed with the assurance that the
necessary funds were on their way.

Early next morning he made cautious inquiries at the Queen's Hotel,
where an unexpected check awaited him. The clerk in the office perfectly
remembered the clergyman who had come there the day before in a little
two-seater car, and who had signed the visitors book in the name of
James Ogilvy. He was no longer in the hotel, apparently he had put up
his car in some neighboring garage, and, after breakfast had paid his
bill, and had gone off in the direction of the docks in a taxi. At the
end of an hour Wendover had ascertained that the man he was in search of
had booked a passage for Norway, and had dropped out of the docks in a
Norwegian steamer about eleven o'clock that morning. He had evidently
gone on a fishing excursion, for he had taken a number of rods, and
such-like baggage with him. It was quite an unexpected rebuff, and it
left Wendover utterly bewildered for the moment.

Angry and disappointed, he went back to his hotel there to sit down
quietly in the smoking-room and ponder over what was best to be done
next. Obviously, Garcia was merely covering his tracks. That he had gone
to Norway for any length of time Wendover declined to believe. He would
be back again before long, no doubt, in another disguise, ready to take
up the business where he had dropped it. For the time had come now when
only one life stood between him and the treasure in the safe, and when
he did strike he would strike swiftly and without mercy. It was
unfortunate that he had slipped away just at this time, for Wendover had
felt comparatively safe so long as his enemy was more or less in sight.

He was still pondering this over when a stranger in a grey lounge suit
entered the smoking-room and accosted Wendover by name.

"What on earth are you doing here?" the newcomer asked. "Up to some of
your old games, eh. Still playing the amateur detective on behalf of
that paper of yours. Do you remember that business you dragged me into
at Vienna?"

"Why, bless my soul, it's Walton," Wendover cried. "I had quite
forgotten you lived in Hull. And I suppose you had quite forgotten we
were going to have a little golf together at St. Andrews this autumn. Or
was it some late salmon fishing? Upon my word, I forget."

"Fishing," the man called Walton said. "I haven't forgotten it; in fact,
I was going to write to you to-morrow. But, unfortunately, I can't get
away. My partner is laid up, and until he comes back to business I am
tied by the leg. And there is some of the best fishing in the north of
Scotland spoiling, and here am I chained to the docks. But why shouldn't
you go? Got no tackle here? What on earth's that got to do with it? Come
round to my place, and I'll fit you out in half an hour. You go on up
there for a few days, and I'll try and snatch a long week-end, anyhow.
You'll have it all to yourself, with the exception of a queer old
Johnnie that the Guv-nor scraped acquaintance with and gave an
invitation to. But I don't even know that he's gone there yet. In fact,
he called at the office when I was out this morning, and left a message
to the effect that he was running over to Norway on business."

Wendover looked up swiftly.

"What's the old man's name?" he asked carelessly.

"Ogilvy. The Rev. James Ogilvy. My old father's a bit of a naturalist,
as you know, and he is always scraping acquaintances with some old bore
or another. And you know how good-natured he is. Doesn't fish himself,
but always ready to find a rod for somebody else. Still, it doesn't much
matter, and the reverend gentleman has gone to Norway, though he does
hope to come back at the end of next week. But never mind about him.
Will you go up to South Glen?"

Wendover's friend little realized how eagerly the latter jumped at the
opportunity. It was as if fate had conspired to throw Garcia into his
way again, and that Garcia would come back he felt sure. And he felt
sure, too, that that murderous ruffian had merely crossed over to Norway
in order to cover his tracks.

"Oh, I'll go up to South Glen, right enough," he said. "I'll go up
to-morrow. Not that I shall catch any fish till this weather changes.
It's too dry for anything."




CHAPTER XXIV.--On the River.


Everything being arranged, and Wendover feeling easier in his mind now,
all he had to do was to kill time until the arrival of his traps, and,
when they came, make his way to Scotland with a sure and certain feeling
that he would see Garcia again before long. And for the first time since
he had set out upon his self-appointed task, luck appeared to be on his
side, and, indeed, his meeting with Cecil Walton had been luck, pure and
simple. By some fortunate chance Garcia had come in contact with
Walton's kind-hearted, good-natured father, and the invitation to try a
few days' salmon fishing had followed as a matter of course. And very
probably Garcia had jumped at it. For Wendover knew him to be a good
deal of a sportsman, and, besides, the wily South American would
probably be glad of a few quiet days in that remote part of the world,
when he could kill a salmon or two and brood over his plans for the
future at the same time. And now the opportunity had come, just at the
moment when he wanted it. He would be back from Norway in a week, and
would proceed to that quiet, sporting retreat without the least idea
that he was going to run straight into the arms of the last man in the
world that he wanted to see.

Wendover chuckled when he thought of it. He would meet Garcia alone with
the possible exception of the keeper, they would be fishing a stream
together, and Garcia, of course, would recognise him. But would Garcia
come back in the guise of the Rev. James Ogilvy, or would he adopt some
other character? Wendover decided that he would come back as the Rev.
James Ogilvy, and when he discovered who his companion was, would bluff
the thing out. But this, of course, was a matter of pure speculation.
There was only one thing to do, to wait and see what was on the lap of
the future.

It was intensely hot. It had been a long and fiery summer, and the whole
country was dried and parched and burned up. The British Isles had not
known such a drought for the last century. For the moment, at any rate,
fishing was out of the question, though directly the rain came, and it
could not be long delayed now, the rivers would be full again, and
doubtless there would be a fine run of autumn fish straight from the
sea. And besides, there were trout to think of, and the South Glen trout
fishing was some of the best in the world.

On the third day, Wendover turned his back on the sweltering seaport
town, and made his way to Scotland. It was the same all along the route
everywhere, the same tale of drought with the fields burned brown, and
the leaves on the trees like burnished copper. The streams had dwindled
down till they were no more than silver threads between their banks, and
the old keeper on the South Glen estate turned a serious face to
Wendover as he related his tale of woe of shrunken streams and empty
creel.

"It's no use I'll be to you, Mr. Wendover," he said. "At least, not till
the rains come. Maybe you'll get a trout or two, but you'll not want me
for that."

So, for a day or two Wendover wandered along the stream, getting an
occasional trout from a pool here and there, and meanwhile wondering as
to whether or not he was wasting his time. And yet he could do nothing
except idle the burning days away, writing most days to Zena, who was
still somewhere holiday making on the south coast. More than once he was
inclined to pack his bag and go and join her till such time as it was
possible to strike again. And then all that dogged resolution came back
to him, that grim determination not to turn for a moment from the task
before him until it was finished, and he had that arch-fiend Garcia at
his mercy.

It was too hot to do anything, almost too hot to think. Each morning the
sun rose in a sky of copper and poured down mercilessly on the hillside
and the valley till evening came, and evening just as hot and windless.
The river ran for miles in that more or less desolate country, covered
only on either side with hundreds of acres of great gorse bushes, and
here and there a wood or two, all now as dry as tinder and ready to
burst into flame at the application of a spark. It reminded Wendover of
an old Canadian experience of his, where he had narrowly escaped with
his life from a great bush fire, which had destroyed thousands of
cattle, and had taken also a large toll of humanity. For on either side
of the river these great gorse bushes ran for miles, so that if the wind
swept over from the east, and a fire broke out, it would be a terrible
thing for any unfortunate human being wandering there with a rod or a
gun. But these were only the idle thoughts of an idle man, who fretted
and fumed under this enforced inaction, and longed for something to turn
up, even though it brought tragedy with it.

And on the seventh day the Rev. James Ogilvy put in an appearance. He
came up to the little fishing lodge with his rods and his butterfly net,
smiling benignly and gazing about him with that bland air of his, though
he certainly started and turned color when he caught sight of Wendover.

"God bless my soul," he exclaimed. "Who on earth would have thought of
seeing you here? So you are a friend of the Waltons, are you? I was told
that I should find a young man here, but I didn't anticipate the
pleasure of meeting Mr. Wendover again. Are you staying here long?"

"That all depends," Wendover said, cautiously. "I came up here, hoping
that the rain would come, and, meanwhile, I have done my best with the
trout."

"Have you really?" Garcia bleated. "I am afraid that the catching of
trout is beyond my poor powers. I hope to catch a salmon for the first
time in my life. By the way, what were you doing that afternoon about
ten days ago, when you overtook me just outside Brancaster? You see, I
changed my mind and drove to Hull instead of waiting for my friend. You
were just behind me, I think."

It was all so superbly done and so coolly put that Wendover could not
but admire the effrontery of the man.

"Oh, I was just having a run round," he said, carelessly. "And I
overtook you on the way. I should probably have gone some distance with
you, only I got a bad puncture. I suppose you didn't happen to notice
that?"

"Well, I can't say I did," Garcia chuckled. "You see, I'm a pretty bad
driver, and all my attention was concentrated on the car. When I looked
back you were nowhere to be seen. I hope there was nothing very wrong."

Wendover laughed the matter off. It pleased him to know that this man
was not yet sure as to whether Wendover really recognised him or not.
But behind Garcia's innocent assumption of almost senile amiability,
there was a watching gleam in his eye, and even that disguise of his
could not altogether conceal the cruel vindictiveness of his lips. And
here lay the great danger. Here was the man whom Wendover had the most
cause to fear; here they were together in that lonely spot, miles away
from the nearest house, sleeping under the same roof, with only a gilly
and an elderly housekeeper as companion. And here would be Garcia's
opportunity over and over again. He would accompany Wendover everywhere,
he would want to try his hand at trout fishing, of course; they would be
alone together in those thousands of acres of gorse, where a hundred
crimes might be committed, and no one any the wiser for it. And there
were a score of ways by which Garcia could get his enemy at a
disadvantage, and so arrange matters to look as if the tragedy had been
nothing more than a distressing accident. For they were on high ground
there, where here and there the river ran between steep banks, which
were miniature precipices in their way, and here and there were deep,
silent pools, where a body might lie for weeks without being found. And
all this began to get on Wendover's nerves. For two days he had Garcia
for his companion, two days when he watched the other's every move and
returned in the evening tired and worn out, and almost thankful to find
himself alive.

It was on the third day that he slipped away alone, an intensely hot
day, with a strong breeze blowing from the north, so that his progress
was slow, though this mattered nothing, seeing that he had the whole day
before him. He sat down, presently, on a rocky boulder by the side of
the stream, and with an uneasy feeling that he was being watched. He
told himself that Garcia was getting on his nerves. And, after all, it
would be an easy matter for Garcia to follow him and shoot him down, as
he had shot down the man with the orange-colored hair. Wendover went
back cautiously on his tracks for a quarter of a mile, and dropped into
a little hollow behind a thorn bush, where he waited patiently.

He had not long to wait, not more than a quarter of an hour at the
outside. And then, as he turned his head, he saw Garcia come creeping
along the path that he himself had so recently traversed. The man was
stripped of his disguise. He no longer wore the clerical hat or the
tinted glasses. He was stripped to his shirt and trousers, and in his
right hand Wendover could see the gleam of a revolver. It was Garcia
himself who stood there, Garcia, grim and cruel and alert, like some
savage animal on the track of his prey. And as he passed the bush,
Wendover rose quickly and covered him with his own weapon from which for
many weeks he had not been parted, night or day.

"Drop that pistol and put up your hands," he cried. "It is you and I
now, John Garcia."

He was looking straight into the eyes of his antagonist. And Garcia
seemed to recognise the game was up. Very slowly he raised his hands
above his head, and the revolver slipped from his grasp.

"Now, turn your back on me, and walk forward ten paces," Wendover
commanded. "After that, don't move an inch, as you value your skin.
Come, get a move on."

Garcia obeyed readily enough. He heard his own weapon, as it struck the
bushes in the distance, where it was hurled by Wendover, then he turned
coolly and deliberately, like a man who knew that his end has come and
is prepared to meet it.

"Well," he said quietly. "Well. So you think that you have got the best
of John Garcia at last, eh?"




CHAPTER XXV.--The Greater Danger.


Garcia spoke with all the coolness of a man who is either prepared to
meet his fate, or absolutely indifferent to it. He knew that he had
overreached himself, and he knew, definitely enough now, that he was
face to face with one man who knew his criminal record, and who was
ready to put an end to it. The game was up, and well did Garcia know it.

He stood there, in the blazing sunshine, his head bare and the great
drops of perspiration standing out on his bald forehead, stood there,
grim and cruel like a wolf that is brought to bay, not afraid to die,
and ready to take advantage of the first opportunity to escape.

"Well," he said again. "Well? So you know me at last, Mr. Wendover, know
me for what I am."

"You may be sure of that," Paul said grimly. "For nearly two years now I
have been hard on the track of the blackest-hearted scoundrel in
Europe."

"Really! Upon my word, you flatter me. To a certain extent, what you say
is a compliment. And may I ask why you have taken all this interest in
my welfare?"

"First of all, perhaps, in the general interests of humanity," Paul
said. "The man who puts a bullet through your heart is doing a distinct
service to society."

"And that you are prepared to do," Garcia sneered.

"I did not say that," Paul replied. "Though I am perfectly prepared to
do it if occasion arises. The game is up, Mr. Garcia. It is either you
or I, and in the circumstances, I prefer it it to be you. I am not
concerned to inquire how you managed to deceive the police at Geneva,
because that doesn't very much matter. But I am concerned over the
murder of Leo Detmar, the man who helped you to escape. I am concerned
in the destruction of de Vince and Petroff, and the assassination of the
unfortunate man, Martin. If I wasn't present at those murders, I was
very close by and I need not tell you, Mr. Garcia that I know quite
enough to have you a dozen times over."

Garcia passed his tongue over his thin lips.

"You are very fortunate," he said. "How fortunate you will perhaps never
know. But you have been near to going the way of the rest a hundred
times. You are a clever and determined man, and I made the mistake being
a little too much afraid of you. I now see that I ought to have removed
you first."

"Yes, I think that would have been wiser," Paul said coolly. "But the
fact remains that you didn't, and now I hold you powerless at the end of
my revolver. We are all alone here, and I am taking no risks. You came
here to-day to shoot me, to shoot me in cold blood----"

"You are right there," Garcia admitted.

"To shoot me in cold blood," Paul went on. "And then the coast would
have been clear. Once I was out of the way, I take it, that there would
have been no life between you and the contents of a certain safe we know
of."

Garcia smiled almost pleasantly.

"You are right again," he said. "Why should I try and disguise from a
clever man like you what my object has been for the last two years? I am
out for money like everybody else, though some people are ashamed to
admit it. And after all is said and done, we are all at war with one
another where money is concerned. Every man who makes a big fortune
ruins a hundred people and perhaps it is more merciful to destroy a
rival than allow him to starve. From which you will see I am a bit of a
philosopher, Mr. Wendover."

"You are a heartless scoundrel," Paul cried. "You are--but what is
that."

Suddenly the wind seemed to increase in velocity. Suddenly it went round
to the north-east, and a hotter blast than before struck the two men
standing there. Then, all at once, the sun was obscured by drifting
clouds of smoke, then with a roar, and a crackle like musketry a great
sheet of gorse burst into a wall of flame. It was the spark to inflame
the tinder as dry as dust, and it came racing along towards the two men
standing there till they could feel the heat on their faces. Then a
shower of embers carried across the river, and the fierce devastation
thundered out to the other side. It was Wendover who first realised the
danger.

"It seems to me," he said coolly, "that neither of us are likely to tell
this tale. Mr. Garcia, do you see what has happened? That whole sea of
gorse is ablaze and we are in deadly peril. It is useless to cross the
river, for the wind has changed and we are trapped. I could shoot you
now, without the slightest hesitation, and take my chance of getting
away. But it is a slender chance and all we can do is to wait and hope
for the best. Now then, are you going to make a confession, or are you
not?"

The superb courage of the man did not fail him even at that critical
moment. He turned to Paul and faced him as coolly as if they had been at
a dinner table.

"For what object?" he asked. "What is there to be gained by it? I have
been in a forest fire before, and, though this is a small matter by
comparison, it is big enough. We are in the centre of thousands of acres
of blazing gorse, and escape is out of the question. I came here to
murder you as I murdered the rest, and nature anticipated me. The mere
fact that I shall die at the same time is no great consolation, thought
it certainly simplifies matters. We shall be choked with cinders and
smoke presently. We shall lie down and gasp our lives out side by side;
and when the fire has finished with us there will be nothing but a
handful of bones to testify to the failure of the great adventure. In
ten minutes we shall have a raging furnace behind us, racing along in
our direction, at a speed that would outstrip the fastest horse. And if
you look you will see that the condition is no better on the other side
of the river. The game is up, Mr. Wendover, and it is a case of the
devil take the hindmost. And if you ask me if I regret anything, then I
don't. I don't even regret that I didn't put a bullet into you months
ago. For I have had to take too many chances, and when a man does that
sort of thing, fate always plays him a scurvy trick before he has
finished. I have felt it from the first in my bones. Something told me
that I could never live to possess my treasure. But, on the other hand,
you won't have it either. That pleasant little dream of yours of
marrying Miss Zena Corroda and living ever afterwards on her money, will
not materialise. At any rate, I shall have that consolation to take to
another world with me."

The roar of the oncoming flames almost drowned the last few words that
Garcia said. And he was not acting now, there was no mistaking the note
of sincerity in his voice. With a sudden change of wind, the roar of the
flames seemed to jump nearer by miles, and already the thin clouds
overhead had obscured the sun and rendered the wood as black as night.
Without another word, Garcia dashed forward, and Wendover followed him
blindly in the direction of the river. Already it seemed to him that the
fierce heat of the day had grown fiercer still. As minute followed
minute, the temperature rose till Wendover was conscious of the fact
that the perspiration was streaming down his face, and that his limbs
were wet as if he had just emerged from his bath. He peeled off his coat
and vest, and followed Garcia as best he could.

He was no longer blind to the deadly peril of the advancing flames. He
could hear the roar and crackle of them apparently close behind. Already
the little tongues of blue and orange danced overhead and jumped from
bough to bough, till skyward was a canopy of flame. They could hear the
roar of the river presently and the rush of the rapids, but the stream
was still afar off, and the going was tangled and dangerous. And still
they struggled on side by side as if there were no enmity between them,
each man fighting for his life, for there was nothing else at that
moment to think of. They were spent and weary now, utterly worn out and
exhausted. Already the dropping flames and charred branches were falling
on them till their shirts were in rags and the leaping blaze smote them
on their bare limbs. Every touch was like a sword-thrust, but they
struggled on and on, keeping their feet by a miracle, till at length
they stood on the river's bank, looking down a steep bank into the
stream forty feet below them.

It was a perilous drop--almost as dangerous as the fire itself. But it
had to be done.

"Jump!" Garcia cried, hoarsely. "The only chance."

As he spoke he hurled himself into the air and struck the shallow water
with a hideous splash. A second later Paul was after him, blind and
almost unconscious. But the cold flood stung him to life again; then, as
he rose, he gripped a floating log, and between heaven and earth drifted
down the thin stream, heedless and careless as to whether he lived or
died.




CHAPTER XXVI.--The Treasure.


Wendover was back in London again, puzzled and uneasy in his mind. Even
now he did not know whether he had failed or not. He himself had been
dragged out of the shallow stream, where he had lain, half-suffocated
for hours, by a friendly charcoal-burner, who had found him there, more
dead than alive, and had taken him up to the shooting box where, for a
day or two, he had been quite unable to give any account of his
adventures. Then he had deemed it prudent to tell his friends that
Garcia had been in his company, but he said no more, and as Garcia had
not put in an appearance, and the most careful inquiries failed to
elicit any information about him, it was naturally assumed that he had
perished in the flames. The odds were largely in favor of his having
done so.

But, then, Garcia was no ordinary man: he had looked death in the face
too often to be taken by surprise, and possibly he had taken advantage
of a stroke of good fortune to disappear altogether for the time being.

If this was so--and it was clearly possible--he would assuredly crop up
somewhere else in a fresh disguise and strike Wendover down at the
moment when he felt most safe. There was nothing for it, then, but to
wait for the few weeks which would elapse between now and the annual
meeting of the Brotherhood. If Garcia were alive he would most assuredly
put in an appearance on that occasion. He would take it for granted the
last of his foes was out of the way, and that the treasure in the safe
was waiting for him without the slightest chance of any other claimant
putting in an appearance. So Paul went down south and nursed himself
carefully with a view to what might turn out to be the final round
between Garcia and himself.

Zena was not in London, she was still down on the south coast completing
her holiday. She was staying in rooms there, and at the end of a week or
so Wendover ran down to see her. He was still pale and shaky, but his
eyes shone clearly enough, and his nerves had recovered their tension.
Still, Zena was shocked at the change in his appearance, and the tears
came into her eyes, as she hung about her lover's neck and implored him
not to carry the adventure any further.

"Why should you go on, Paul?" she urged. "Let that wretch have the
money, if he is still alive. There seems to be a sort of curse upon it.
I don't think I could ever touch it myself after what has happened."

"You mustn't blame the money itself," Paul said. "Money is an insensate
thing, and if everybody who possessed a fortune really deserved it,
there would be little wealth in the world. Besides, think what a
powerful instrument of evil to put in Garcia's hands. No, my dear girl,
that money belongs to you, and I have sworn by all my gods that I will
recover it. I shall take every precaution. I shall not go to the
rendezvous unarmed, and if Garcia has the temerity to meet me there,
then, by heaven, he shall pay the penalty."

"But suppose you don't go?" Zena urged. "Suppose you stay away for
another year. Surely we can wait that time. And then it would be safe."

"And have the suspense hanging over my head all that time." Paul said.
"Oh, no. We shall be married long before then, Zena, and even if it is
only for your sake, I must convince myself that Garcia is dead. If he
fails to turn up next week, we shall know that that man exists no
longer. So, if you don't mind, let's forget all about him and make the
best of the happy week that lies before us. I want to see that haunted
look fade from your eyes. I want to see the bloom on your cheeks again,
and the laughter on your lips. Come, let us get out in the sunshine, let
us go and see happy people enjoying themselves, heedless of the fact
that such creatures as Garcia exist."

On the morning of the meeting of the Brotherhood Wendover turned his
back on the little watering-place and made his way to London by an early
train. He wanted to be alone now, he wanted to concentrate himself upon
the task before him, and, above all, he wanted to forget the keen
anxiety in Zena's dark eyes as she parted from him at the station. She
had been anxious to accompany him to London, so that she might be on the
spot to hear the news at the first available moment, but Paul had been
absolutely firm on that point. He wanted nothing to hamper him now, he
wanted to get the work over and done with, and then he would join Zena
at Sandmouth on the morrow by the earliest possible train. And he was
feeling rather more anxious than he was prepared to admit, for the long
strain had told upon him.

The slow day dragged its way along till evening came at length, and Paul
turned his face in the direction of his destination. He tried to argue
with himself; he tried to persuade himself that there was no real
danger, but, all the same, he was feeling exceedingly anxious and
nervous. He dined at a quiet restaurant, and forced himself to sit out a
frivolous musical comedy afterwards. It was only when he turned into the
noisy street, just after eleven, that he realised the fact that the
performance had been entirely a blank to him, and, indeed, he had not
the haziest idea what the play was about. Then, with something like a
sigh of relief, he turned into the vestibule of the Ambassadors' Hotel
at a quarter to twelve. As the clock was striking the hour, he strolled
leisurely along the corridor, and stood outside the door of the fateful
room with the latchkey in his hand. Then, with his courage all back
again in him, and his teeth closely set, he pushed back the lock and
stepped into the anteroom. The inner door was ajar, and he looked
cautiously in.

The supper-room was empty!

The clock had struck twelve, and the last ringing chime had died away as
Wendover took stock of his surroundings. If Garcia had been coming, then
assuredly he would have been here before now. For the combination on the
time lock had undoubtedly worked, and it was open to anyone to pull back
that heavy door and help themselves to the treasure. But no one was
here, there was no sound in the corridor outside, and apparently no one
was coming. Paul stepped forward.

The cold repast was on the table, the gold-foiled bottles stood on the
sideboard, and, best of all, the iron door of the safe had swung open.
Paul's first impulse, in this moment of suspense--a suspense that
brought the beads of moisture out on his forehead--was to clear out the
contents of the safe and fly before the dread interruption came.

But Paul fought the feeling down valiantly. It was in his own hands,
now, to know, once and for all, whether the future was clear and
tranquil, and any sudden impulse on his part might have prolonged the
uncertainty, perhaps for years to come. He sat there, doggedly, watching
the clock tick off minute after minute till the first and second and
third quarter were passed, and from somewhere in the distance a big
knell. Then, with a wild joy in his heart, and a feeling of relief that
brought a lump in his throat, he turned to the safe and began to fill
his pockets.

There was practically no gold there, nothing but piles of bank notes and
negotiable securities, and some papers that Wendover dropped, and with a
lighted match, burned to ashes. On the top of these he placed his mask,
and then, holding himself with an effort, closed the safe and left the
room.

A moment or two later he was in the street, wiping the moisture from his
forehead, and trying to realise that Garcia was dead, and that many
years of happiness and prosperity for Zena and himself lay snugly in the
depths of his overcoat pocket. For he had won out beyond the shadow of a
doubt. Pluck and courage, and patience had carried him through, and for
the rest, the great adventure was finished.

A glorious sunshine lay over the little sheltered cove at Sandmouth,
where Zena sat alone, waiting for the coming of her lover. He had not
kept her in suspense, for an hour or two ago, she had had a telegram
from Wendover, which in a few words told her everything. She knew now
that she had come into her own, she knew that the treasure was safe in
Wendover's bank, and that the shadow of peril had vanished for ever. It
had been a long and dangerous adventure for Wendover, but it was over at
last, and a higher power than man had avenged the lives of the men that
Garcia had so recklessly destroyed. Small wonder, then, that the light
of happiness gleamed in Zena's dark eyes and that the radiant smile on
her face deepened as she looked up and saw the man who had gone through
so much for her, coming eagerly down the path leading from the cliffs.
And a moment later she was in Wendover's arms.

It was a long time before either of them spoke, a long time before
either of them cared to break the delicious silence of that blissful
moment. Then Wendover told Zena everything.

"It has been a black and bitter time," he said. "But it is all over now.
You can enjoy the fortune which is rightly yours without fear and
without reproach."

"I shall enjoy it all the more," Zena said, "because I know that you are
going to share it with me. But for you, Paul, I should still be
struggling for my daily bread. What a wonderful contrast between now and
this time last year, between this time and last night. And, Paul, I want
you to make a promise. I want you to have no more adventures. I want a
nice house in the country, where you can have your sport like other men.
I want to rest and be happy."

"Anything I can give you!" Paul cried.

"You have given me all I need already," Zena whispered. "Never was a
girl yet who had a hero as good and true and brave as mine."



THE END



</pre>
<p style="margin-left:10%"><img src="/pga-australia.jpg" width="80" height="75" alt=""> </p>

<p><b>This site is full of FREE ebooks - <a href="http://gutenberg.net.au" target="_blank">Project Gutenberg Australia</a></b></p>
<!-- ad goes here -->


