=* A Distributed Proofreaders Canada eBook *=

This ebook is made available at no cost and with very few restrictions.
These restrictions apply only if (1) you make a change in the ebook
(other than alteration for different display devices), or (2) you are
making commercial use of the ebook. If either of these conditions
applies, please contact a FP administrator before proceeding.

This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright
in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your country's
copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT
DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.

_Title:_ Under the Volcano
_Date of first publication:_ 1947
_Author:_ Malcolm Lowry
_Date first posted:_ Mar. 27, 2017
_Date last updated:_ Mar. 27, 2017
Faded Page eBook #20170345

This ebook was produced by: Barbara Watson, David T. Jones, Cindy Beyer
& the online Distributed Proofreaders Canada team at
http://www.pgdpcanada.net





                          [Cover Illustration]




                             Malcolm  Lowry
                               Under  the
                                Volcano

                      Reynal & Hitchcock, New York




                    Copyright 1947 by Malcolm Lowry

        _All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce_
             _this book, or portions thereof, in any form._

                            _Third Printing_

           PRINTED IN THE U.S.A. BY THE CORNWALL PRESS, INC.




                                   To
                           Margerie, my wife




                           Under the Volcano




    _W O N D E R S are many, and none is more wonderful than man;
    the power that crosses the white sea, driven by the stormy
    south-wind, making a path under surges that threaten to engulf
    him; and Earth, the eldest of the gods, the immortal, unwearied,
    doth he wear, turning the soil with the offspring of horses, as
    the ploughs go to and fro from year to year._

    _And the light-hearted race of birds, and the tribes of savage
    beasts, and the sea-brood of the deep, he snares in the meshes
    of his woven toils, he leads captive, man excellent in wit. And
    he masters by his arts the beast whose lair is in the wilds, who
    roams the hills; he tames the horse of shaggy mane, he puts the
    yoke upon its neck, he tames the tireless mountain bull._

    _And speech, and wind-swift thought, and all the moods that
    mould a state, hath he taught himself; and how to flee the
    arrows of the frost, when it is hard lodging under the clear
    sky, and the arrows of the rushing rain; yea, he hath resource
    for all; without resource he meets nothing that must come; only
    against Death shall he call for aid in vain; but from baffling
    maladies he hath devised escapes._

                                                SOPHOCLES—_Antigone_

    _N O W I blessed the condition of the dog and toad, yea, gladly
    would I have been in the condition of the dog or horse, for I
    knew they had no soul to perish under the everlasting weight of
    Hell or Sin, as mine was like to do. Nay, and though I saw this,
    felt this, and was broken to pieces with it, yet that which
    added to my sorrow was, that I could not find with all my soul
    that I did desire deliverance._

              JOHN BUNYAN—_Grace Abounding for the Chief of Sinners_

    W E R immer strebend sich bemüht, den können wir erlösen.

    _Whosoever unceasingly strives upward . . . him can we save._

                                                              GOETHE




                                   I


TWO mountain chains traverse the republic roughly from north to south,
forming between them a number of valleys and plateaus. Overlooking one
of these valleys, which is dominated by two volcanoes, lies, six
thousand feet above sea level, the town of Quauhnahuac. It is situated
well south of the Tropic of Cancer, to be exact on the nineteenth
parallel, in about the same latitude as the Revillagigedo Islands to the
west in the Pacific, or very much further west, the southernmost tip of
Hawaii—and as the port of Tzucox to the east on the Atlantic seaboard
of Yucatan near the border of British Honduras, or very much further
east, the town of Juggernaut, in India, on the Bay of Bengal.

The walls of the town, which is built on a hill, are high, the streets
and lanes tortuous and broken, the roads winding. A fine American-style
highway leads in from the north but is lost in its narrow streets and
comes out a goat track. Quauhnahuac possesses eighteen churches and
fifty-seven cantinas. It also boasts a golf course and no less than four
hundred swimming pools, public and private, filled with the water that
ceaselessly pours down from the mountains, and many splendid hotels.

The Hotel Casino de la Selva stands on a slightly higher hill just
outside the town, near the railway station. It is built far back from
the main highway and surrounded by gardens and terraces which command a
spacious view in every direction. Palatial, a certain air of desolate
splendour pervades it. For it is no longer a Casino. You may not even
dice for drinks in the bar. The ghosts of ruined gamblers haunt it. No
one ever seems to swim in the magnificent Olympic pool. The springboards
stand empty and mournful. Its jai-alai courts are grass-grown and
deserted. Two tennis courts only are kept up in the season.

Towards sunset on the Day of the Dead in November, 1939, two men in
white flannels sat on the main terrace of the Casino drinking anís. They
had been playing tennis, followed by billiards, and their racquets,
rainproofed, screwed in their presses—the doctor’s triangular, the
other’s quadrangular—lay on the parapet before them. As the processions
winding from the cemetery down the hillside behind the hotel came closer
the plangent sounds of their chanting were borne to the two men; they
turned to watch the mourners, a little later to be visible only as the
melancholy lights of their candles, circling among the distant, trussed
cornstalks. Dr. Arturo Díaz Vigil pushed the bottle of Anís del Mono
over to M. Jacques Laruelle, who now was leaning forward intently.

Slightly to the right and below them, below the gigantic red evening,
whose reflection bled away in the deserted swimming pools scattered
everywhere like so many mirages, lay the peace and sweetness of the
town. It seemed peaceful enough from where they were sitting. Only if
one listened intently, as M. Laruelle was doing now, could one
distinguish a remote confused sound—distinct yet somehow inseparable
from the minute murmuring, the tintinnabulation of the mourners—as of
singing, rising and falling, and a steady trampling—the bangs and cries
of the fiesta that had been going on all day.

M. Laruelle poured himself another anís. He was drinking anís because it
reminded him of absinthe. A deep flush had suffused his face, and his
hand trembled slightly over the bottle, from whose label a florid demon
brandished a pitchfork at him.

“—I meant to persuade him to go away and get dealcoholisé,” Dr. Vigil
was saying. He stumbled over the word in French and continued in
English. “But I was so sick myself that day after the ball that I
suffer, physical, really. That is very bad, for we doctors must comport
ourselves like apostles. You remember, we played tennis that day too.
Well, after I looked the Consul in his garden I sended a boy down to see
if he would come for a few minutes and knock my door, I would appreciate
it to him, if not, please write me a note, if drinking have not killed
him already.”

M. Laruelle smiled.

“But they have gone,” the other went on, “and yes, I think to ask you
too that day if you had looked him at his house.”

“He was at my house when you telephoned, Arturo.”

“Oh, I know, but we got so horrible drunkness that night before, so
perfecta_men_te borracho, that it seems to me, the Consul is as sick as
I am.” Dr. Vigil shook his head. “Sickness is not only in body, but in
that part used to be call: soul. Poor your friend, he spend his money on
earth in such continuous tragedies.”

M. Laruelle finished his drink. He rose and went to the parapet; resting
his hands one on each tennis racquet, he gazed down and around him: the
abandoned jai-alai courts, their bastions covered with grass, the dead
tennis courts, the fountain, quite near in the centre of the hotel
avenue, where a cactus farmer had reined up his horse to drink. Two
young Americans, a boy and a girl, had started a belated game of
ping-pong on the verandah of the annex below. What had happened just a
year ago to-day seemed already to belong in a different age. One would
have thought the horrors of the present would have swallowed it up like
a drop of water. It was not so. Though tragedy was in the process of
becoming unreal and meaningless it seemed one was still permitted to
remember the days when an individual life held some value and was not a
mere misprint in a communiqué. He lit a cigarette. Far to his left, in
the northeast, beyond the valley and the terraced foothills of the
Sierra Madre Oriental, the two volcanoes, Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl,
rose clear and magnificent into the sunset. Nearer, perhaps ten miles
distant, and on a lower level than the main valley, he made out the
village of Tomalín, nestling behind the jungle, from which rose a thin
blue scarf of illegal smoke, someone burning wood for carbon. Before
him, on the other side of the American highway, spread fields and
groves, through which meandered a river, and the Alcapancingo road. The
watchtower of a prison rose over a wood between the river and the road
which lost itself further on where the purple hills of a Doré Paradise
sloped away into the distance. Over in the town the lights of
Quauhnahuac’s one cinema, built on an incline and standing out sharply,
suddenly came on, flickered off, came on again. “No se puede vivir sin
amar,” M. Laruelle said . . . “As that estúpido inscribed on my house.”

“Come, amigo, throw away your mind,” Dr. Vigil said behind him.

“—But hombre, Yvonne came back! That’s what I shall never understand.
She came back to the man!” M. Laruelle returned to the table where he
poured himself and drank a glass of Tehuacan mineral water. He said:

“Salud y pesetas.”

“Y tiempo para gastarlas,” his friend returned thoughtfully.

M. Laruelle watched the doctor leaning back in the steamer chair,
yawning, the handsome, impossibly handsome, dark, imperturbable Mexican
face, the kind deep brown eyes, innocent too, like the eyes of those
wistful beautiful Oaxaqueñan children one saw in Tehuantepec (that ideal
spot where the women did the work while the men bathed in the river all
day), the slender small hands and delicate wrists, upon the back of
which it was almost a shock to see the sprinkling of coarse black hair.
“I threw away my mind long ago, Arturo,” he said in English, withdrawing
his cigarette from his mouth with refined nervous fingers on which he
was aware he wore too many rings. “What I find more—” M. Laruelle noted
the cigarette was out and gave himself another anís.

“Con permiso.” Dr. Vigil conjured a flaring lighter out of his pocket so
swiftly it seemed it must have been already ignited there, that he had
drawn a flame out of himself, the gesture and the igniting one movement;
he held the light for M. Laruelle. “Did you never go to the church for
the bereaved here,” he asked suddenly, “where is the Virgin for those
who have nobody with?”

M. Laruelle shook his head.

“Nobody go there. Only those who have nobody them with,” the doctor
said, slowly. He pocketed the lighter and looked at his watch, turning
his wrist upwards with a neat flick. “Allons-nous-en,” he added,
“vámonos,” and laughed yawningly with a series of nods that seemed to
carry his body forward until his head was resting between his hands.
Then he rose and joined M. Laruelle at the parapet, drawing deep
breaths. “Ah, but this is the hour I love, with the sun coming down,
when all the man began to sing and all the dogs to shark—”

M. Laruelle laughed. While they had been talking the sky had grown wild
and stormy to the south; the mourners had left the slope of the hill.
Sleepy vultures, high overhead, deployed downwind. “About eight-thirty
then, I might go to the cine for an hour.”

“Bueno. I will see you this night then, in the place where you know.
Remember, I still do not believe you are leaving to-morrow.” He held out
his hand which M. Laruelle grasped firmly, loving him. “Try and come
to-night, if not, please understand I am always interested in your
health.”

“Hasta la vista.”

“Hasta la vista.”

—Alone, standing beside the highway down which he had driven four years
before on the last mile of that long, insane, beautiful journey from Los
Angeles, M. Laruelle also found it hard to believe he was really going.
Then the thought of to-morrow seemed well-nigh overwhelming. He had
paused, undecided which way to walk home, as the little overloaded bus,
Tomalín: Zócalo, jounced past him downhill toward the barranca before
climbing into Quauhnahuac. He was loth to take that same direction
to-night. He crossed the street, making for the station. Although he
would not be travelling by train the sense of departure, of its
imminence, came heavily about him again as, childishly avoiding the
locked points, he picked his path over the narrow-gauge lines. Light
from the setting sun glanced off the oiltanks on the grass embankment
beyond. The platform slept. The tracks were vacant, the signals up.
There was little to suggest any train ever arrived at this station, let
alone left it:

                      ──────────────────────────────

                               QUAUHNAHUAC

                      ──────────────────────────────

Yet a little less than a year ago the place had been the scene of a
parting he would never forget. He had not liked the Consul’s
half-brother at their first encounter when he’d come with Yvonne and the
Consul himself to M. Laruelle’s house in the Calle Nicaragua, any more,
he felt now, than Hugh had liked him. Hugh’s odd appearance—though such
was the overwhelming effect of meeting Yvonne again, he did not obtain
even the impression of oddity so strongly that he was able later in
Parián immediately to recognize him—had merely seemed to caricature the
Consul’s amiable half-bitter description of him. So this was the child
M. Laruelle vaguely remembered hearing about years before! In half an
hour he’d dismissed him as an irresponsible bore, a professional indoor
Marxman, vain and self-conscious really, but affecting a romantic
extroverted air. While Hugh, who for various reasons had certainly not
been “prepared” by the Consul to meet M. Laruelle, doubtless saw him as
an even more precious type of bore, the elderly aesthete, a confirmedly
promiscuous bachelor, with a rather unctuous possessive manner toward
women. But three sleepless nights later an eternity had been lived
through: grief and bewilderment at an unassimilable catastrophe had
drawn them together. In the hours which followed his response to Hugh’s
telephone call from Parián M. Laruelle learned much about Hugh: his
hopes, his fears, his self-deceptions, his despairs. When Hugh left, it
was as if he had lost a son.

Careless of his tennis clothes, M. Laruelle climbed the embankment. Yet
he was right, he told himself, as reaching the top he paused for breath,
right, after the Consul had been “discovered” (though meantime the
grotesquely pathetic situation had developed where there was not, on
probably the first occasion when one had been so urgently needed, a
British Consul in Quauhnahuac to appeal to), right in insisting Hugh
should waive all conventional scruples and take every advantage of the
curious reluctance of the “police” to hold him—their anxiety, it all
but appeared, to be rid of him just when it seemed highly logical they
should detain him as a witness, at least in one aspect of what now at a
distance one could almost refer to as the “case”—and at the earliest
possible moment join that ship providentially awaiting him at Vera Cruz.
M. Laruelle looked back at the station; Hugh left a gap. In a sense he
had decamped with the last of his illusions. For Hugh, at twenty-nine,
still dreamed, even then, of changing the world (there was no other way
of saying this) through his actions—just as Laruelle, at forty-two, had
still then not quite given up hope of changing it through the great
films he proposed somehow to make. But to-day these dreams seemed absurd
and presumptuous. After all he had made great films as great films went
in the past. And so far as he knew they had not changed the world in the
slightest.—However he had acquired a certain identity with Hugh. Like
Hugh he was going to Vera Cruz; and like Hugh too, he did not know if
his ship would ever reach port . . .

M. Laruelle’s way led through half-cultivated fields bordered by narrow
grass paths, trodden by cactus farmers coming home from work. It was
thus far a favorite walk, though not taken since before the rains. The
leaves of cacti attracted with their freshness; green trees shot by
evening sunlight might have been weeping willows tossing in the gusty
wind which had sprung up; a lake of yellow sunlight appeared in the
distance below pretty hills like loaves. But there was something baleful
now about the evening. Black clouds plunged up to the south. The sun
poured molten glass on the fields. The volcanoes seemed terrifying in
the wild sunset. M. Laruelle walked swiftly, in the good heavy tennis
shoes he should have already packed, swinging his tennis racquet. A
sense of fear had possessed him again, a sense of being, after all these
years, and on his last day here, still a stranger. Four years, almost
five, and he still felt like a wanderer on another planet. Not that that
made it any the less hard to be leaving, even though he would soon, God
willing, see Paris again. Ah well! He had few emotions about the war,
save that it was bad. One side or the other would win. And in either
case life would be hard. Though if the Allies lost it would be harder.
And in either case one’s own battle would go on.

How continually, how startlingly, the landscape changed! Now the fields
were full of stones: there was a row of dead trees. An abandoned plough,
silhouetted against the sky, raised its arms to heaven in mute
supplication; another planet, he reflected again, a strange planet
where, if you looked a little further, beyond the Tres Marías, you would
find every sort of landscape at once, the Cotswolds, Windermere, New
Hampshire, the meadows of the Eure-et-Loire, even the grey dunes of
Cheshire, even the Sahara, a planet upon which, in the twinkling of an
eye, you could change climates, and, if you cared to think so, in the
crossing of a highway, three civilizations; but beautiful, there was no
denying its beauty, fatal or cleansing as it happened to be, the beauty
of the Earthly Paradise itself.

Yet in the Earthly Paradise, what had he done? He had made few friends.
He had acquired a Mexican mistress with whom he quarrelled, and numerous
beautiful Mayan idols he would be unable to take out of the country, and
he had—

M. Laruelle wondered if it was going to rain: it sometimes, though
rarely, did at this time of year, as last year for instance, it rained
when it should not. And those were storm clouds in the south. He
imagined he could smell the rain, and it ran in his head he would enjoy
nothing better than to get wet, soaked through to the skin, to walk on
and on through this wild country in his clinging white flannels getting
wetter and wetter and wetter. He watched the clouds: dark swift horses
surging up the sky. A black storm breaking out of its season! That was
what love was like, he thought; love which came too late. Only no sane
calm succeeded it, as when the evening fragrance or slow sunlight and
warmth returned to the surprised land! M. Laruelle hastened his steps
still further. And let such love strike you dumb, blind, mad, dead—your
fate would not be altered by your simile. Tonnerre de dieu . . . It
slaked no thirst to say what love was like which came too late.

The town was almost directly to his right now and above him, for M.
Laruelle had been walking gradually downhill since leaving the Casino de
la Selva. From the field he was crossing he could see, over the trees on
the slope of the hill, and beyond the dark castled shape of Cortez
Palace, the slowly revolving Ferris wheel, already lit up, in the square
of Quauhnahuac; he thought he could distinguish the sound of human
laughter rising from its bright gondolas and, again, that faint
intoxication of voices singing, diminishing, dying in the wind,
inaudible finally. A despondent American tune, the St. Louis Blues, or
some such, was borne across the fields to him, at times a soft windblown
surge of music from which skimmed a spray of gabbling, that seemed not
so much to break against as to be thumping the walls and towers of the
outskirts; then with a moan it would be sucked back into the distance.
He found himself in the lane that led away through the brewery to the
Tomalín road. He came to the Alcapancingo road. A car was passing and as
he waited, face averted, for the dust to subside, he recalled that time
motoring with Yvonne and the Consul along the Mexican lake-bed, itself
once the crater of a huge volcano, and saw again the horizon softened by
dust, the buses whizzing past through the whirling dust, the shuddering
boys standing on the backs of the lorries holding on for grim death,
their faces bandaged against the dust (and there was a magnificence
about this, he always felt, some symbolism for the future, for which
such truly great preparation had been made by a heroic people, since all
over Mexico one could see those thundering lorries with those young
builders in them, standing erect, their trousers flapping hard, legs
planted wide, firm) and in the sunlight, on the round hill, the lone
section of dust advancing, the dust-darkened hills by the lake like
islands in driving rain. The Consul, whose old house M. Laruelle now
made out on the slope beyond the barranca, had seemed happy enough too
then, wandering around Cholula with its three hundred and six churches
and its two barber shops, the “Toilet” and the “Harem,” and climbing the
ruined pyramid later, which he had proudly insisted was the original
Tower of Babel. How admirably he had concealed what must have been the
babel of his thoughts!

Two ragged Indians were approaching M. Laruelle through the dust; they
were arguing, but with the profound concentration of university
professors wandering in summer twilight through the Sorbonne. Their
voices, the gestures of their refined grimy hands, were unbelievably
courtly, delicate. Their carriage suggested the majesty of Aztec
princes, their faces obscure sculpturings on Yucatecan ruins:

“—perfectamente borracho—”

“—completamente fantástico—”

“Sí, hombre, la vida impersonal—”

“Claro, hombre—”

“Positivamente!”

“Buenas noches.”

“Buenas noches.”

They passed into the dusk. The Ferris wheel sank from sight: the sounds
of the fair, the music, instead of coming closer, had temporarily
ceased. M. Laruelle looked into the west; a knight of old, with tennis
racquet for shield and pocket torch for scrip, he dreamed a moment of
battles the soul survived to wander there. He had intended turning down
another lane to the right, that led past the model farm where the Casino
de la Selva grazed its horses, directly into his street, the Calle
Nicaragua. But on a sudden impulse he turned left along the road running
by the prison. He felt an obscure desire on his last night to bid
farewell to the ruin of Maximilian’s Palace.

To the south an immense archangel, black as thunder, beat up from the
Pacific. And yet, after all, the storm contained its own secret calm
. . . His passion for Yvonne (whether or not she’d ever been much good
as an actress was beside the point, he’d told her the truth when he said
she would have been more than good in any film he made) had brought back
to his heart, in a way he could not have explained, the first time that
alone, walking over the meadows from Saint Près, the sleepy French
village of backwaters and locks and grey disused watermills where he was
lodging, he had seen, rising slowly and wonderfully and with boundless
beauty above the stubble fields blowing with wildflowers, slowly rising
into the sunlight, as centuries before the pilgrims straying over those
same fields had watched them rise, the twin spires of Chartres
Cathedral. His love had brought a peace, for all too short a while, that
was strangely like the enchantment, the spell, of Chartres itself, long
ago, whose every sidestreet he had come to love and café where he could
gaze at the Cathedral eternally sailing against the clouds, the spell
not even the fact he was scandalously in debt there could break. M.
Laruelle walked on swiftly toward the Palace. Nor had any remorse for
the Consul’s plight broken that other spell fifteen years later here in
Quauhnahuac! For that matter, M. Laruelle reflected, what had reunited
the Consul and himself for a time, even after Yvonne left, was not, on
either side, remorse. It was perhaps, partly, more the desire for that
illusory comfort, about as satisfying as biting on an aching tooth, to
be derived from the mutual unspoken pretense that Yvonne was still here.

—Ah, but all these things might have seemed a good enough reason for
putting the whole earth between themselves and Quauhnahuac! Yet neither
had done so. And now M. Laruelle could feel their burden pressing upon
him from outside, as if somehow it had been transferred to these purple
mountains all around him, so mysterious, with their secret mines of
silver, so withdrawn, yet so close, so still, and from these mountains
emanated a strange melancholy force that tried to hold him here bodily,
which was its weight, the weight of many things, but mostly that of
sorrow.

He passed a field where a faded blue Ford, a total wreck, had been
pushed beneath a hedge on a slope: two bricks had been set under its
front wheels against involuntary departure. What are you waiting for, he
wanted to ask it, feeling a sort of kinship, an empathy, for those
tatters of ancient hood flapping . . . _Darling, why did I leave? Why
did you let me?_ It was not to M. Laruelle that these words on that
long-belated postcard of Yvonne’s had been addressed, that postcard
which the Consul must have maliciously put under his pillow sometime on
that last morning—but how could one ever be sure just when?—as though
the Consul had calculated it all, _knowing_ M. Laruelle would discover
it at the precise moment that Hugh, distraughtly, would call from
Parián. Parián! To his right towered the prison walls. Up on the
watchtower, just visible above them, two policemen peered east and west
with binoculars. M. Laruelle crossed a bridge over the river, then took
a short cut through a wide clearing in the woods evidently being laid
out as a botanical gardens. Birds came swarming out of the southeast:
small, black, ugly birds, yet too long, something like monstrous
insects, something like crows, with awkward long tails, and an
undulating, bouncing, labored flight. Shatterers of the twilight hour,
they were flapping their way feverishly home, as they did every evening,
to roost within the fresno trees in the zócalo, which until nightfall
would ring with their incessant drilling mechanic screech. Straggling,
the obscene concourse hushed and pedalled by. By the time he reached the
Palace the sun had set.

In spite of his _amour propre_ he immediately regretted having come. The
broken pink pillars, in the half-light, might have been waiting to fall
down on him: the pool, covered with green scum, its steps torn away and
hanging by one rotting clamp, to close over his head. The shattered
evil-smelling chapel, overgrown with weeds, the crumbling walls,
splashed with urine, on which scorpions lurked—wrecked entablature, sad
archivolt, slippery stones covered with excreta—this place, where love
had once brooded, seemed part of a nightmare. And Laruelle was tired of
nightmares. France, even in Austrian guise, should not transfer itself
to Mexico, he thought. Maximilian had been unlucky in his palaces too,
poor devil. Why did they have to call that other fatal palace in Trieste
also the Miramar, where Carlotta went insane, and everyone who ever
lived there from the Empress Elizabeth of Austria to the Archduke
Ferdinand had met with a violent death? And yet, how they must have
loved this land, these two lonely empurpled exiles, human beings
finally, lovers out of their element—their Eden, without either knowing
quite why, beginning to turn under their noses into a prison and smell
like a brewery, their only majesty at last that of tragedy. Ghosts.
Ghosts, as at the Casino, certainly lived here. And a ghost who still
said: “It is our destiny to come here, Carlotta. Look at this rolling
glorious country, its hills, its valleys, its volcanoes beautiful beyond
belief. And to think that it is ours! Let us be good and constructive
and make ourselves worthy of it!” Or there were ghosts quarrelling: “No,
you loved yourself, you loved your misery more than I. You did this
deliberately to us.” “I?” “You always had people to look after you, to
love you, to use you, to lead you. You listened to everyone save me, who
really loved you.” “No, you’re the only person I’ve ever loved.” “Ever?
You loved only yourself.” “No, it was you, always you, you must believe
me, please: you must remember how we were always planning to go to
Mexico. Do you remember? . . . Yes, you are right. I had my chance with
you. Never a chance like that again!” And suddenly they were weeping
together, passionately, as they stood.

But it was the Consul’s voice, not Maximilian’s, M. Laruelle could
almost have heard in the Palace: and he remembered as he walked on,
thankful he had finally struck the Calle Nicaragua even at its furthest
end, the day he’d stumbled upon the Consul and Yvonne embracing there;
it was not very long after their arrival in Mexico and how different the
Palace had seemed to him then! M. Laruelle slackened his pace. The wind
had dropped. He opened his English tweed coat (bought however from High
Life, pronounced Eetchleef, Mexico City) and loosened his blue
polka-dotted scarf. The evening was unusually oppressive. And how
silent. Not a sound, not a cry reached his ears now. Nothing but the
clumsy suction of his footsteps . . . Not a soul in sight. M. Laruelle
felt slightly chafed too, his trousers bound him. He was getting too
fat, had already got too fat in Mexico, which suggested another odd
reason some people might have for taking up arms, that would never find
its way into the newspapers. Absurdly, he swung his tennis racquet in
the air, through the motions of a serve, a return: but it was too heavy,
he had forgotten about the press. He passed the model farm on his right,
the buildings, the fields, the hills shadowy now in the swiftly
gathering gloom. The Ferris wheel came into view again, just the top,
silently burning high on the hill, almost directly in front of him, then
the trees rose up over it. The road, which was terrible and full of
potholes, went steeply downhill here; he was approaching the little
bridge over the barranca, the deep ravine. Halfway across the bridge he
stopped; he lit a new cigarette from the one he’d been smoking, and
leaned over the parapet, looking down. It was too dark to see the
bottom, but: here was finality indeed, and cleavage! Quauhnahuac was
like the times in this respect, wherever you turned the abyss was
waiting for you round the corner. Dormitory for vultures and city
Moloch! When Christ was being crucified, so ran the sea-borne, hieratic
legend, the earth had opened all through this country, though the
coincidence could hardly have impressed anyone then! It was on this
bridge the Consul had once suggested to him he make a film about
Atlantis. Yes, leaning over just like this, drunk but collected,
coherent, a little mad, a little impatient—it was one of those
occasions when the Consul had drunk himself sober—he had spoken to him
about the spirit of the abyss, the god of storm, “huracán,” that
“testified so suggestively to intercourse between opposite sides of the
Atlantic.” Whatever he had meant.

Though it was not the first occasion the Consul and he had stood looking
into an abyss. For there had always been, ages ago—and how could one
now forget it?—the “Hell Bunker”: and that other encounter there which
seemed to bear some obscure relation to the later one in Maximilian’s
Palace . . . Had his discovery of the Consul here in Quauhnahuac really
been so extraordinary, the discovery that his old English playmate—he
could scarcely call him “schoolmate”—whom he hadn’t seen for nearly a
quarter of a century was actually living in his street, and had been,
without his knowledge, for six weeks? Probably not; probably it was just
one of those meaningless correspondences that might be labelled:
“favorite trick of the gods.” But how vividly, again, that old seaside
holiday in England came back to him!

—M. Laruelle, who had been born in Languion, in the Moselle country,
but whose father, a rich philatelist of remote habits, had moved to
Paris, usually spent his summer holidays as a boy with his parents in
Normandy. Courseulles, in Calvados, on the English Channel, was not a
fashionable resort. Far from it. There were a few windy battered
pensions, miles of desolate sand dunes, and the sea was cold. But it was
to Courseulles, nevertheless, in the sweltering summer of 1911, that the
family of the famous English poet, Abraham Taskerson, had come, bringing
with them the strange little Anglo-Indian orphan, a broody creature of
fifteen, so shy and yet so curiously self-contained, who wrote poetry
that old Taskerson (who’d stayed at home) apparently encouraged him
with, and who sometimes burst out crying if you mentioned in his
presence the word “father” or “mother.” Jacques, about the same age, had
felt oddly attracted to him: and since the other Taskerson boys—at
least six, mostly older and, it would appear, all of a tougher breed,
though they were in fact collateral relatives of young Geoffrey
Firmin—tended to band together and leave the lad alone, he saw a great
deal of him. They wandered together along the shore with a couple of old
“cleeks” brought from England and some wretched gutta-percha golf balls,
to be driven on their last afternoon gloriously into the sea. “Joffrey”
became “The Old Bean.” Laruelle mère, to whom, however, he was “that
beautiful English young poet,” liked him too, Taskerson mère had taken a
fancy to the French boy: the upshot was Jacques was asked to spend
September in England with the Taskersons, where Geoffrey would be
staying till the commencement of his school term. Jacques’ father, who
planned sending him to an English school till he was eighteen,
consented. Particularly he admired the erect manly carriage of the
Taskersons . . . And that was how M. Laruelle came to Leasowe.

It was a kind of grown-up, civilized version of Courseulles on the
English northwest coast. The Taskersons lived in a comfortable house
whose back garden abutted on a beautiful, undulating golf course bounded
on the far side by the sea. It looked like the sea; actually it was the
estuary, seven miles wide, of a river: white horses westward marked
where the real sea began. The Welsh mountains, gaunt and black and
cloudy, with occasionally a snow peak to remind Geoff of India, lay
across the river. During the week, when they were allowed to play, the
course was deserted: yellow ragged sea poppies fluttered in the spiny
sea grass. On the shore were the remains of an antediluvian forest with
ugly black stumps showing, and further up an old stubby deserted
lighthouse. There was an island in the estuary, with a windmill on it
like a curious black flower, which you could ride out to at low tide on
a donkey. The smoke of freighters outward bound from Liverpool hung low
on the horizon. There was a feeling of space and emptiness. Only at
week-ends did a certain disadvantage appear in their site: although the
season was drawing to a close and the grey hydropathic hotels along the
promenades were emptying, the golf course was packed all day with
Liverpool brokers playing foursomes. From Saturday morning till Sunday
night a continuous hail of golf balls flying out of bounds bombarded the
roof. Then it was a pleasure to go out with Geoffrey into the town,
which was still full of laughing pretty girls, and walk through the
sunlit windy streets or to look at one of the comical Pierrot shows on
the beach. Or best of all they would sail on the marine lake in a
borrowed twelve-foot yacht managed expertly by Geoffrey.

For Geoffrey and he were—as at Courseulles—left much to themselves.
And Jacques now understood more clearly why he’d seen so little of the
Taskersons in Normandy. Those boys were unprecedented, portentous
walkers. They thought nothing of walking twenty-five or thirty miles in
a day. But what seemed stranger still, considering none was above school
age, they were also unprecedented, portentous drinkers. In a mere
five-mile walk they would stop at as many “pubs” and drink a pint or two
of powerful beer in each. Even the youngest, who had not turned fifteen,
would get through his six pints in an afternoon. And if anyone was sick,
so much the better for him. That made room for more. Neither Jacques,
who had a weak stomach—though he was used to a certain amount of wine
at home—nor Geoffrey, who disliked the taste of beer, and besides
attended a strict Wesleyan school, could stand this mediaeval pace. But
indeed the whole family drank inordinately. Old Taskerson, a kindly
sharp man, had lost the only one of his sons who’d inherited any degree
of literary talent; every night he sat brooding in his study with the
door open, drinking hour after hour, his cats on his lap, his evening
newspaper crackling distant disapproval of the other sons, who for their
part sat drinking hour after hour in the dining room. Mrs. Taskerson, a
different woman at home, where she perhaps felt less necessity of making
a good impression, sat with her sons, her pretty face flushed, half
disapproving too, but nevertheless cheerfully drinking everyone else
under the table. It was true the boys usually had a head start.—Not
that they were the sort ever to be seen staggering about outside in the
street. It was a point of honour with them that, the drunker they
became, the more sober they should appear. As a rule they walked
fabulously upright, shoulders thrown back, eyes front, like guardsmen on
duty, only, towards the end of the day, very very slowly, with that same
“erect manly carriage,” in short, that had so impressed M. Laruelle’s
father. Even so it was by no means an unusual occurrence in the morning
to discover the entire household sleeping on the dining room floor. Yet
no one seemed to feel any the worse for it. And the pantry was always
bulging with barrels of beer to be tapped by anyone who did. Healthy and
strong, the boys ate like lions. They devoured appalling messes of fried
sheep’s stomachs and puddings known as black or blood puddings, a sort
of conglomerate offal rolled in oatmeal that Jacques feared might be
intended at least partly for his benefit—_boudin_, don’t you know,
Jacques—while the Old Bean, now often referred to as “that Firmin,” sat
bashful and out of place, his glass of pale bitter untouched, shyly
trying to make conversation with Mr. Taskerson.

It was difficult at first to understand what “that Firmin” was doing at
all with such an unlikely family. He had no tastes in common with the
Taskerson lads and he was not even at the same school. Yet it was easy
to see that the relatives who sent him had acted with the best of
motives. Geoffrey’s “nose was always in a book,” so that “Cousin
Abraham,” whose work had a religious turn, should be the “very man” to
assist him. While as for the boys themselves they probably knew as
little about them as Jacques’ own family: they won all the language
prizes at school, and all the athletic ones: surely these fine hearty
fellows would be “just the thing” to help poor Geoffrey over his shyness
and stop him “wool-gathering” about his father and India. Jacques’ heart
went out to the poor Old Bean. His mother had died when he was a child,
in Kashmir, and, within the last year or so, his father, who’d married
again, had simply, yet scandalously, disappeared. Nobody in Kashmir or
elsewhere knew quite what had happened to him. One day he had walked up
into the Himalayas and vanished, leaving Geoffrey, at Srinagar, with his
half-brother, Hugh, then a baby in arms, and his stepmother. Then, as if
that were not enough, the stepmother died too, leaving the two children
alone in India. Poor Old Bean! He was really, in spite of his queerness,
so touched by any kindness done to him. He was even touched by being
called “that Firmin.” And he was devoted to old Taskerson. M. Laruelle
felt that in his way he was devoted to all the Taskersons and would have
defended them to the death. There was something disarmingly helpless and
at the same time so loyal about him. And after all, the Taskerson boys
had, in their monstrous bluff English fashion, done their best not to
leave him out and to show him their sympathy on his first summer holiday
in England. It was not their fault if he could not drink seven pints in
fourteen minutes or walk fifty miles without dropping. It was partly due
to them that Jacques himself was here to keep him company. And they
_had_ perhaps partly succeeded in making him overcome his shyness. For
from the Taskersons the Old Bean had at least learned, as Jacques with
him, the English art of “picking up girls.” They had an absurd Pierrot
song, sung preferably in Jacques’ French accent.

Jacques and he walked along the promenade singing:

_Oh we allll_ W A L K _ze wibberlee wobberlee_ W A L K
_And we alll_ T A L K _ze wibberlee wobberlee_ T A L K
_And we alll_ W E A R _wibberlee wobberlee_ T I E S
_And-look-at-all-ze-pretty-girls-with-wibberlee-wobberlee eyes. Oh_
_We allll_ S I N G _ze wibberlee wobberlee_ S O N G
_Until ze day is dawn-ing,_
_And-we-all-have-zat-wibberlee-wobberlee-wobberlee-wibberlee-_
    _wibberlee-wobberlee feeling_
_In ze morning._

Then the ritual was to shout “Hi” and walk after some girl whose
admiration you imagined, if she happened to turn round, you had aroused.
If you really had and it was after sunset you took her walking on the
golf course, which was full, as the Taskersons put it, of good
“sitting-out places.” These were in the main bunkers or gulleys between
dunes. The bunkers were usually full of sand, but they were windproof,
and deep; none deeper than the “Hell Bunker.” The Hell Bunker was a
dreaded hazard, fairly near the Taskersons’ house, in the middle of the
long sloping eighth fairway. It guarded the green in a sense, though at
a great distance, being far below it and slightly to the left. The abyss
yawned in such a position as to engulf the third shot of a golfer like
Geoffrey, a naturally beautiful and graceful player, and about the
fifteenth of a duffer like Jacques. Jacques and the Old Bean had often
decided that the Hell Bunker would be a nice place to take a girl,
though wherever you took one, it was understood nothing very serious
happened. There was, in general, about the whole business of “picking
up” an air of innocence. After a while the Old Bean, who was a virgin to
put it mildly, and Jacques, who pretended he was not, fell into the
habit of picking up girls on the promenade, walking to the golf course,
separating there, and meeting later. There were, oddly, fairly regular
hours at the Taskersons’. M. Laruelle didn’t know to this day why there
was no understanding about the Hell Bunker. He had certainly no
intention of playing Peeping Tom on Geoffrey. He had happened with his
girl, who bored him, to be crossing the eighth fairway toward Leasowe
Drive when both were startled by voices coming from the bunker. Then the
moonlight disclosed the bizarre scene from which neither he nor the girl
could turn their eyes. Laruelle would have hurried away but neither of
them—neither quite aware of the sensible impact of what was occurring
in the Hell Bunker—could control their laughter. Curiously, M. Laruelle
had never remembered what anyone said, only the expression on Geoffrey’s
face in the moonlight and the awkward grotesque way the girl had
scrambled to her feet, then, that both Geoffrey and he behaved with
remarkable aplomb. They all went to a tavern with some queer name, as
“The Case is Altered.” It was patently the first time the Consul had
ever been into a bar on his own initiative; he ordered Johnny Walkers
all round loudly, but the waiter, encountering the proprietor, refused
to serve them and they were turned out as minors. Alas, their friendship
did not for some reason survive these two sad, though doubtless
providential, little frustrations. M. Laruelle’s father had meantime
dropped the idea of sending him to school in England. The holiday
fizzled out in desolation and equinoctial gales. It had been a
melancholy dreary parting at Liverpool and a dreary melancholy journey
down to Dover and back home, lonesome as an onion peddler, on the
sea-swept channel boat to Calais—

M. Laruelle straightened, instantly becoming aware of activity, to step
just in time from the path of a horseman who had reined up sideways
across the bridge. Darkness had fallen like the House of Usher. The
horse stood blinking in the leaping headlights of a car, a rare
phenomenon so far down the Calle Nicaragua, that was approaching from
the town, rolling like a ship on the dreadful road. The rider of the
horse was so drunk he was sprawling all over his mount, his stirrups
lost, a feat in itself considering their size, and barely managing to
hold on by the reins, though not once did he grasp the pommel to steady
himself. The horse reared wildly, rebellious—half fearful, half
contemptuous, perhaps, of its rider—then it catapulted in the direction
of the car: the man, who seemed to be falling straight backwards at
first, miraculously saved himself only to slip to one side like a trick
rider, regained the saddle, slid, slipped, fell backwards—just saving
himself each time, but always with the reins, never with the pommel,
holding them in one hand now, the stirrups still unrecovered as he
furiously beat the horse’s flanks with the machete he had withdrawn from
a long curved scabbard. Meantime the headlights had picked out a family
straggling down the hill, a man and a woman in mourning, and two neatly
dressed children, whom the woman drew in to the side of the road as the
horseman fled on, while the man stood back against the ditch. The car
halted, dimming its lights for the rider, then came toward M. Laruelle
and crossed the bridge behind him. It was a powerful silent car, of
American build, sinking deeply on its springs, its engine scarcely
audible, and the sound of the horse’s hooves rang out plainly, receding
now, slanting up the ill-lit Calle Nicaragua, past the Consul’s house,
where there would be a light in the window M. Laruelle didn’t want to
see—for long after Adam had left the garden the light in Adam’s house
burned on—and the gate was mended, past the school on the left, and the
spot where he had met Yvonne with Hugh and Geoffrey that day—and he
imagined the rider as not pausing even at Laruelle’s own house, where
his trunks lay mountainous and still only half packed, but galloping
recklessly round the corner into the Calle Tierra del Fuego and on, his
eyes wild as those soon to look on death, through the town—and this
too, he thought suddenly, this maniacal vision of senseless frenzy, but
controlled, not quite uncontrolled, somehow almost admirable, this too,
obscurely, was the Consul . . .

M. Laruelle passed up the hill: he stood, tired, in the town below the
square. He had not, however, climbed the Calle Nicaragua. In order to
avoid his own house he had taken a cut to the left just beyond the
school, a steep broken circuitous path that wound round behind the
zócalo. People stared at him curiously as he sauntered down the Avenida
de la Revolución, still encumbered with his tennis racquet. This street
pursued far enough, would lead back to the American highway again and
the Casino de la Selva; M. Laruelle smiled: at this rate he could go on
travelling in an eccentric orbit round his house forever. Behind him
now, the fair, which he’d given scarcely a glance, whirled on. The town,
colorful even at night, was brilliantly lit, but only in patches, like a
harbour. Windy shadows swept the pavements. And occasional trees in the
shadow seemed as if drenched in coal dust, their branches bowed beneath
a weight of soot. The little bus clanged by him again, going the other
way now, braking hard on the steep hill, and without a tail light. The
last bus to Tomalín. He passed Dr. Vigil’s windows on the far side: _Dr.
Arturo Díaz Vigil, Médico Cirujano y Partero, Facultad de México, de la
Escuela Médico Militar, Enfermedades de Niños, Indisposiciones
nerviosas_—and how politely all this differed from the notices one
encountered in the mingitorios!—_Consultas de 12 a 2 y 4 a 7._ A slight
overstatement, he thought. Newsboys ran past selling copies of
_Quauhnahuac Nuevo_, the pro-Almazán, pro-Axis sheet put out, they said,
by the tiresome Unión Militar. _Un avión de combate Francés derribado
por un caza Alemán. Lost trabajadores de Australia abogan por la paz.
¿Quieré Vd._—a placard asked him in a shop window—_vestirse con
elegancía y a la última moda de Europa y los Estados Unidos?_ M.
Laruelle walked on down the hill. Outside the barracks two soldiers,
wearing French army helmets and grey faded purple uniforms laced and
interlaced with green lariats, paced on sentry duty. He crossed the
street. Approaching the cinema he became conscious all was not as it
should be, that there was a strange unnatural excitement in the air, a
kind of fever. It had grown on the instant much cooler. And the cinema
was dark, as though no picture were playing to-night. On the other hand
a large group of people, not a queue, but evidently some of the patrons
from the cine itself, who had come prematurely flooding out, were
standing on the pavement and under the arcature listening to a
loudspeaker mounted on a van blaring the Washington Post March. Suddenly
there was a crash of thunder and the street lights twitched off. So the
lights of the cine had gone already. Rain, M. Laruelle thought. But his
desire to get wet had deserted him. He put his tennis racquet under his
coat and ran. A troughing wind all at once engulfed the street,
scattering old newspapers and blowing the naphtha flares on the tortilla
stands flat: there was a savage scribble of lightning over the hotel
opposite the cinema, followed by another peal of thunder. The wind was
moaning, everywhere people were running, mostly laughing, for shelter.
M. Laruelle could hear the thunderclaps crashing on the mountains behind
him. He just reached the theatre in time. The rain was falling in
torrents.

He stood, out of breath, under the shelter of the theatre entrance which
was, however, more like the entrance to some gloomy bazaar or market.
Peasants were crowding in with baskets. At the box office, momentarily
vacated, the door left half open, a frantic hen sought admission.
Everywhere people were flashing torches or striking matches. The van
with the loudspeaker slithered away into the rain and the thunder. _Las
Manos de Orlac_, said a poster: _6 y 8:30. Las Manos de Orlac, con Peter
Lorre._

The street lights came on again, though the theatre still remained dark.
M. Laruelle fumbled for a cigarette. The hands of Orlac . . . How, in a
flash, that had brought back the old days of the cinema, he thought,
indeed his own delayed student days, the days of the Student of Prague,
and Wiene and Werner Krauss and Karl Grüne, the Ufa days when a defeated
Germany was winning the respect of the cultured world by the pictures
she was making. Only then it had been Conrad Veidt in “Orlac.”
Strangely, that particular film had been scarcely better than the
present version, a feeble Hollywood product he’d seen some years before
in Mexico City or perhaps—M. Laruelle looked around him—perhaps at
this very theatre. It was not impossible. But so far as he remembered
not even Peter Lorre had been able to salvage it and he didn’t want to
see it again . . . Yet what a complicated endless tale it seemed to
tell, of tyranny and sanctuary, that poster looming above him now,
showing the murderer Orlac! An artist with a murderer’s hands; that was
the ticket, the hieroglyphic of the times. For really it was Germany
itself that, in the gruesome degradation of a bad cartoon, stood over
him.—Or was it, by some uncomfortable stretch of the imagination, M.
Laruelle himself?

The manager of the cine was standing before him, cupping, with that same
lightning-swift, fumbling-thwarting courtesy exhibited by Dr. Vigil, by
all Latin Americans, a match for his cigarette: his hair, innocent of
raindrops, which seemed almost lacquered, and a heavy perfume emanating
from him, betrayed his daily visit to the peluquería; he was impeccably
dressed in striped trousers and a black coat, inflexibly _muy correcto_,
like most Mexicans of his type, despite earthquake and thunderstone. He
threw the match away now with a gesture that was not wasted, for it
amounted to a salute. “Come and have a drink,” he said.

“The rainy season dies hard,” M. Laruelle smiled as they elbowed their
way through into a little cantina which abutted on the cinema without
sharing its frontal shelter. The cantina, known as the Cervecería XX,
and which was also Vigil’s “place where you know,” was lit by candles
stuck in bottles on the bar and on the few tables along the walls. The
tables were all full.

“Chingar,” the manager said, under his breath, preoccupied, alert, and
gazing about him: they took their places standing at the end of the
short bar where there was room for two. “I am very sorry the function
must be suspended. But the wires have decomposed. Chingado. Every
blessed week something goes wrong with the lights. Last week it was much
worse, really terrible. You know we had a troupe from Panama City here
trying out a show for Mexico.”

“Do you mind my—”

“No, hombre,” laughed the other—M. Laruelle had asked Sr. Bustamente,
who’d now succeeded in attracting the barman’s attention, hadn’t he seen
the Orlac picture here before and if so had he revived it as a hit.
“—uno—?”

M. Laruelle hesitated: “Tequila,” then corrected himself: “No,
anís—anís, por favor, señor.”

“Y una—ah—gaseosa,” Sr. Bustamente told the barman. “No, señor,” he
was fingering, appraisingly, still preoccupied, the stuff of M.
Laruelle’s scarcely wet tweed jacket. “Compañero, we have not revived
it. It has only returned. The other day I show my latest news here too:
believe it, the first newsreels from the Spanish war, that have come
back again.”

“I see you get some modern pictures still though,” M. Laruelle (he had
just declined a seat in the autoridades box for the second showing, if
any) glanced somewhat ironically at a garish threesheet of a German film
star, though the features seemed carefully Spanish, hanging behind the
bar: _La simpatiquísima y encantadora María Landrock, notable artista
alemana que pronto habremos de ver en sensacional Film_.

“—un momentito, señor. Con permiso . . .”

Sr. Bustamente went out, not through the door by which they had entered,
but through a side entrance behind the bar immediately on their right,
from which a curtain had been drawn back, into the cinema itself. M.
Laruelle had a good view of the interior. From it, exactly indeed as
though the show were in progress, came a beautiful uproar of bawling
children and hawkers selling fried potatoes and frijoles. It was
difficult to believe so many had left their seats. Dark shapes of pariah
dogs prowled in and out of the stalls. The lights were not entirely
dead: they glimmered, a dim reddish orange, flickering. On the screen,
over which clambered an endless procession of torchlit shadows, hung,
magically projected upside down, a faint apology for the “suspended
function”; in the autoridades box three cigarettes were lit on one
match. At the rear where reflected light caught the lettering SALIDA of
the exit he just made out the anxious figure of Sr. Bustamente taking to
his office. Outside it thundered and rained. M. Laruelle sipped his
water-clouded anís which was first greenly chilling then rather
nauseating. Actually it was not at all like absinthe. But his tiredness
had left him and he began to feel hungry. It was already seven o’clock.

Though Vigil and he would probably dine later at the Gambrinus or
Charley’s Place. He selected, from a saucer, a quarter lemon and sucked
it reflectively, reading a calendar which, next to the enigmatic Maria
Landrock, behind the bar portrayed the meeting of Cortez and Moctezuma
in Tenochtitlán: _El último Emperador Azteca_, it said below, _Moctezuma
y Hernán Cortés representativo de la raza hispana, quedan frente a
frente: dos razas y dos civilizaciones que habían llegado a un alto
grado de perfección se mezclan para integrar el núcleo de nuestra
nacionalidad actual_. But Sr. Bustamente was coming back, carrying, in
one uplifted hand above a press of people by the curtain, a book . . .

M. Laruelle, conscious of shock, was turning the book over and over in
his hands. Then he laid it on the bar counter and took a sip of anís.
“Bueno, muchas gracias, señor,” he said.

“De nada,” Sr. Bustamente answered in a lowered tone; he waved aside
with a sweeping somehow inclusive gesture, a sombre pillar advancing
bearing a tray of chocolate skulls. “Don’t know how long, maybe two,
maybe three years aquí.”

M. Laruelle glanced in the flyleaf again, then shut the book on the
counter. Above them the rain slammed on the cinema roof. It was eighteen
months since the Consul had lent him the thumbed maroon volume of
Elizabethan plays. At that time Geoffrey and Yvonne had been separated
for perhaps five months. Six more must elapse before she would return.
In the Consul’s garden they drifted gloomily up and down among the roses
and the plumbago and the waxplants “like dilapidated préservatifs,” the
Consul had remarked with a diabolical look at him, a look at the same
time almost official, that seemed now to have said: “I know, Jacques,
you may never return the book, but suppose I lend it you precisely for
that reason, that someday you may be sorry you did not. Oh, I shall
forgive you then, but will you be able to forgive yourself? Not merely
for not having returned it, but because the book will by then have
become an emblem of what even now it is impossible to return.” M.
Laruelle had taken the book. He wanted it because for some time he had
been carrying at the back of his mind the notion of making in France a
modern film version of the Faustus story with some such character as
Trotsky for its protagonist: as a matter of fact he had not opened the
volume till this minute. Though the Consul had several times asked him
for it later he had missed it that same day when he must have left it
behind in the cinema. M. Laruelle listened to the water booming down the
gutters beneath the one jalousie door of the Cervecería XX which opened
into a sidestreet in the far left-hand corner. A sudden thunderclap
shook the whole building and the sound echoed away like coal sliding
down a chute.

“You know, señor,” he said suddenly, “that this isn’t my book.”

“I know,” Sr. Bustamente replied, but softly, almost in a whisper: “I
think your amigo, it was his.” He gave a little confused cough, an
appoggiatura. “Your amigo, the _bicho_—” Sensitive apparently to M.
Laruelle’s smile he interrupted himself quietly. “I did not meant bitch;
I mean _bicho_, the one with the blue eyes.” Then, as if there were any
longer doubt of whom he spoke he pinched his chin and drew downward from
it an imaginary beard. “Your amigo—ah—Señor Firmin. El Consul. The
Americano.”

“No. He wasn’t American.” M. Laruelle tried to raise his voice a little.
It was hard, for everyone in the cantina had stopped talking and M.
Laruelle noticed that a curious hush had also fallen in the theatre. The
light had now completely failed and he stared over Sr. Bustamente’s
shoulder past the curtain into a graveyard darkness, stabbed by flashes
of torchlight like heat lightning, but the vendors had lowered their
voices, the children had stopped laughing and crying while the
diminished audience sat slackly and bored yet patient before the dark
screen, suddenly illumined, swept, by silent grotesque shadows of giants
and spears and birds, then dark again, the men along the right-hand
balcony, who hadn’t bothered to move or come downstairs, a solid dark
frieze carved into the wall, serious, moustachioed men, warriors waiting
for the show to begin, for a glimpse of the murderer’s bloodstained
hands.

“No?” Sr. Bustamente said softly. He took a sip of his gaseosa, looking
too into the dark theatre and then, preoccupied again, around the
cantina. “But was it true, then, he was a Consul? For I remember him
many times sitting here drinking: and often, the poor guy, he have no
socks.”

M. Laruelle laughed shortly. “Yes, he was the British Consul here.” They
spoke subduedly in Spanish, and Sr. Bustamente despairing for another
ten minutes of the lights, was persuaded to a glass of beer while M.
Laruelle himself took a soft drink.

But he had not succeeded in explaining the Consul to the gracious
Mexican. The lights had dimly come on again both in the theatre and the
cantina, though the show had not recommenced, and M. Laruelle sat alone
at a vacated corner table of the Cervecería XX with another anís before
him. His stomach would suffer for it: it was only during the last year
he had been drinking so heavily. He sat rigidly, the book of Elizabethan
plays closed on the table, staring at his tennis racquet propped against
the back of the seat opposite he was keeping for Dr. Vigil. He felt
rather like someone lying in a bath after all the water has run out,
witless, almost dead. Had he only gone home he might have finished his
packing by now. But he had not been able even to make the decision to
say good-bye to Sr. Bustamente. It was still raining, out of season,
over Mexico, the dark waters rising outside to engulf his own zacuali in
the Calle Nicaragua, his useless tower against the coming of the second
flood. Night of the Culmination of the Pleiades! What, after all, was a
Consul that one was mindful of him? Sr. Bustamente, who was older than
he looked, had remembered the days of Porfirio Díaz, the days when, in
America, every small town along the Mexican border harboured a “Consul.”
Indeed Mexican Consuls were to be found even in villages hundreds of
miles from that border. Consuls were expected to look after the
interests of trade between countries—were they not? But towns in
Arizona that did not do ten dollars’ worth of trade a year with Mexico
had Consuls maintained by Díaz. Of course, they were not Consuls but
spies. Sr. Bustamente knew because before the revolution his own father,
a liberal and a member of the Ponciano Arriaga, had been held for three
months in prison at Douglas, Arizona (in spite of which Sr. Bustamente
himself was going to vote for Almazán), on the orders of a
Díaz-maintained Consul. Was it not then reasonable to suppose, he had
hinted, without offence, and perhaps not altogether seriously, Señor
Firmin was such a Consul, not, it was true, a Mexican Consul, nor of
quite the same breed as those others, but an English Consul who could
scarcely claim to have the interests of British trade at heart in a
place where there were no British interests and no Englishmen, the less
so when it was considered that England had severed diplomatic relations
with Mexico?

Actually Sr. Bustamente seemed half convinced that M. Laruelle had been
taken in, that Señor Firmin had really been a sort of spy, or, as he put
it, spider. But nowhere in the world were there people more human or
readily moved to sympathy than the Mexicans, vote as they might for
Almazán. Sr. Bustamente was prepared to be sorry for the Consul even as
a spider, sorry in his heart for the poor lonely dispossessed trembling
soul that had sat drinking here night after night, abandoned by his wife
(though she came back, M. Laruelle almost cried aloud, that was the
extraordinary thing, she came back!) and possibly, remembering the
socks, even by his country, and wandering hatless and desconsolado and
beside himself around the town pursued by other spiders who, without his
ever being quite certain of it, a man in dark glasses he took to be a
loafer here, a man lounging on the other side of the road he thought was
a peon there, a bald boy with earrings swinging madly on a creaking
hammock there, guarded every street and alley entrance, which even a
Mexican would no longer believe (because it was not true, M. Laruelle
said) but which was still quite possible, as Sr. Bustamente’s father
would have assured him, let him start something and find out, just as
his father would have assured him that he, M. Laruelle, could not cross
the border in a cattletruck, say, without “their” knowing it in Mexico
City before he arrived and having already decided what “they” were going
to do about it. Certainly Sr. Bustamente did not know the Consul well,
though it was his habit to keep his eyes open, but the whole town knew
him by sight, and the impression he gave, or gave that last year anyway,
apart from being always _muy borracho_ of course, was of a man living in
continual terror of his life. Once he had run into the cantina El
Bosque, kept by the old woman Gregorio, now a widow, shouting something
like “Sanctuario!” that people were after him, and the widow, more
terrified than he, had hidden him in the back room for half the
afternoon. It was not the widow who’d told him that but Señor Gregorio
himself before he died, whose brother was his, Sr. Bustamente’s,
gardener, because Señora Gregorio was half English or American herself
and had had some difficult explanations to make both to Señor Gregorio
and his brother Bernardino. And yet, if the Consul were a “spider,” he
was one no longer and could be forgiven. After all, he was _simpático_
himself. Had he not seen him once in this very bar give all his money to
a beggar taken by the police?

—But the Consul also was not a coward, M. Laruelle had interrupted,
perhaps irrelevantly, at least not the kind to be craven about his life.
On the contrary he was an extremely brave man, no less than a hero in
fact, who had won, for conspicuous gallantry in the service of his
country during the last war, a coveted medal. Nor with all his faults
was he at bottom a vicious man. Without knowing quite why M. Laruelle
felt he might have actually proved a great force for good. But Sr.
Bustamente had never said he was a coward. Almost reverently Sr.
Bustamente pointed out that being a coward and afraid for one’s life
were two different things in Mexico. And certainly the Consul was not
vicious but an _hombre noble_. Yet might not just such a character and
distinguished record as M. Laruelle claimed was his have precisely
qualified him for the excessively dangerous activities of a spider? It
seemed useless to try and explain to Sr. Bustamente that the poor
Consul’s job was merely a retreat, that while he had intended originally
to enter the Indian Civil Service, he had in fact entered the Diplomatic
Service only for one reason and another to be kicked downstairs into
ever remoter consulships, and finally into the sinecure in Quauhnahuac
as a position where he was least likely to prove a nuisance to the
Empire, in which with one part of his mind at least, M. Laruelle
suspected, he so passionately believed.

But why had all this happened? he asked himself now. Quién sabe? He
risked another anís, and at the first sip a scene, probably rather
inaccurate (M. Laruelle had been in the artillery during the last war,
survived by him in spite of Guillaume Apollinaire’s being for a time his
commanding officer), was conjured to his mind. A dead calm on the line,
but the S.S. _Samaritan_, if she should have been on the line, was
actually far north of it. Indeed for a steamer bound from Shanghai to
Newcastle, New South Wales, with a cargo of antimony and quicksilver and
wolfram she had for some time been steering a rather odd course. Why,
for instance, had she emerged into the Pacific Ocean out of the Bungo
Strait in Japan south of Shikoku and not from the East China Sea? For
days now, not unlike a stray sheep on the immeasurable green meadows of
waters, she had been keeping an offing from various interesting islands
far out of her path. Lot’s Wife and Arzobispo. Rosario and Sulphur
Island. Volcano Island and St. Augustine. It was somewhere between Guy
Rock and the Euphrosyne Reef that she first sighted the periscope and
sent her engines full speed astern. But when the submarine surfaced she
hove to. An unarmed merchantman, the _Samaritan_ put up no fight. Before
the boarding party from the submarine reached her, however, she suddenly
changed her temper. As if by magic the sheep turned to a dragon belching
fire. The U-boat did not even have time to dive. Her entire crew was
captured. The _Samaritan_, who had lost her captain in the engagement,
sailed on, leaving the submarine burning helplessly, a smoking cigar
aglow on the vast surface of the Pacific.

And in some capacity obscure to M. Laruelle—for Geoffrey had not been
in the merchant service but, arrived via the yacht club and something in
salvage, a naval lieutenant, or God knows perhaps by that time a
lieutenant-commander—the Consul had been largely responsible for this
escapade. And for it, or gallantry connected with it, he had received
the British Distinguished Service Order or Cross.

But there was a slight hitch apparently. For whereas the submarine’s
crew became prisoners of war when the _Samaritan_ (which was only one of
the ship’s names, albeit that the Consul liked best) reached port,
mysteriously none of her officers were among them. Something had
happened to those German officers, and what had happened was not pretty.
They had, it was said, been kidnapped by the _Samaritan’s_ stokers and
burned alive in the furnaces.

M. Laruelle thought of this. The Consul loved England and as a young man
may have subscribed—though it was doubtful, this being rather more in
those days the prerogative of noncombatants—to the popular hatred of
the enemy. But he was a man of honour and probably no one supposed for a
moment he had ordered the _Samaritan’s_ stokers to put the Germans in
the furnace. None dreamed that such an order given would have been
obeyed. But the fact remained the Germans had been put there and it was
no use saying that was the best place for them. Someone must take the
blame.

So the Consul had not received his decoration without first being
court-martialed. He was acquitted. It was not at all clear to M.
Laruelle why he and no one else should have been tried. Yet it was easy
to think of the Consul as a kind of more lachrymose pseudo “Lord Jim”
living in a self-imposed exile, brooding, despite his award, over his
lost honour, his secret, and imagining that a stigma would cling to him
because of it throughout his whole life. Yet this was far from the case.
No stigma clung to him evidently. And he had shown no reluctance in
discussing the incident with M. Laruelle, who years before had read a
guarded article concerning it in the _Paris-Soir_. He had even been
enormously funny about it. “People simply did not go round,” he said,
“putting Germans in furnaces.” It was only once or twice during those
later months when drunk that to M. Laruelle’s astonishment he suddenly
began proclaiming not only his guilt in the matter but that he’d always
suffered horribly on account of it. He went much further. No blame
attached to the stokers. No question arose of any order given them.
Flexing his muscles he sardonically announced the single-handed
accomplishment himself of the deed. But by this time the poor Consul had
already lost almost all capacity for telling the truth and his life had
become a quixotic oral fiction. Unlike “Jim” he had grown rather
careless of his honour and the German officers were merely an excuse to
buy another bottle of mescal. M. Laruelle told the Consul as much, and
they quarrelled grotesquely, becoming estranged again—when bitterer
things had not estranged them—and remained so till the last—indeed at
the very last it had been wickedly, sorrowfully worse than ever—as
years before at Leasowe.

             _Then will I headlong fly into the earth:_
             _Earth, gape! it will not harbour me!_

M. Laruelle had opened the book of Elizabethan plays at random and for a
moment he sat oblivious of his surroundings, gazing at the words that
seemed to have the power of carrying his own mind downward into a gulf,
as in fulfilment on his own spirit of the threat Marlowe’s Faustus had
cast at his despair. Only Faustus had not said quite that. He looked
more closely at the passage. Faustus had said: “Then will I headlong run
into the earth,” and “O, no, it will not—” That was not so bad. Under
the circumstances to run was not so bad as to fly. Intaglioed in the
maroon leather cover of the book was a golden faceless figurine also
running, carrying a torch like the elongated neck and head and open beak
of the sacred ibis. M. Laruelle sighed, ashamed of himself. What had
produced the illusion, the elusive flickering candlelight, coupled with
the dim, though now less dim, electric light, or some correspondence,
maybe, as Geoff liked to put it, between the subnormal world and the
abnormally suspicious? How the Consul had delighted in the absurd game
too: sortes Shakespeareanae . . . _And what wonders I have done all
Germany can witness. Enter Wagner, solus. . . . Ick sal you wat suggen,
Hans. Dis skip, dat comen from Candy, is als vol, by God’s sacrement,
van sugar, almonds, cambrick, end alle dingen, towsand, towsand ding._
M. Laruelle closed the book on Dekker’s comedy, then, in the face of the
barman who was watching him, stained dishcloth over his arm, with quiet
amazement, shut his eyes, and opening the book again twirled one finger
in the air, and brought it down firmly upon a passage he now held up to
the light:

      _Cut is the branch that might have grown full straight,_
      _And burnèd is Apollo’s laurel bough,_
      _That sometime grew within this learnèd man,_
      _Faustus is gone: regard his hellish fall—_

Shaken, M. Laruelle replaced the book on the table, closing it with the
fingers and thumb of one hand, while with the other hand he reached to
the floor for a folded sheet of paper that had fluttered out of it. He
picked the paper up between two fingers and unfolded it, turning it
over. _Hotel Bella Vista_, he read. There were really two sheets of
uncommonly thin hotel notepaper that had been pressed flat in the book,
long but narrow and crammed on both sides with marginless writing in
pencil. At first glance it did not appear a letter. But there was no
mistaking, even in the uncertain light, the hand, half crabbed, half
generous, and wholly drunken, of the Consul himself, the Greek e’s,
flying buttresses of d’s, the t’s like lonely wayside crosses save where
they crucified an entire word, the words themselves slanting steeply
downhill, though the individual characters seemed as if resisting the
descent, braced, climbing the other way. M. Laruelle felt a qualm. For
he saw now that it was indeed a letter of sorts, though one that the
writer undoubtedly had little intention, possibly no capability for the
further tactile effort, of posting:

. . . . . . Night: and once again, the nightly grapple with death, the
room shaking with daemonic orchestras, the snatches of fearful sleep,
the voices outside the window, my name being continually repeated with
scorn by imaginary parties arriving, the dark’s spinets. As if there
were not enough real noises in these nights the color of grey hair. Not
like the rending tumult of American cities, the noise of the unbandaging
of great giants in agony. But the howling pariah dogs, the cocks that
herald dawn all night, the drumming, the moaning that will be found
later white plumage huddled on telegraph wires in back gardens or fowl
roosting in apple trees, the eternal sorrow that never sleeps of great
Mexico. For myself I like to take my sorrow into the shadow of old
monasteries, my guilt into cloisters and under tapestries, and into the
misericordes of unimaginable cantinas where sad-faced potters and
legless beggars drink at dawn, whose cold jonquil beauty one rediscovers
in death. So that when you left, Yvonne, I went to Oaxaca. There is no
sadder word. Shall I tell you, Yvonne, of the terrible journey there
through the desert over the narrow-gauge railway on the rack of a
third-class carriage bench, the child whose life its mother and I saved
by rubbing its belly with tequila out of my bottle, or of how, when I
went to my room in the hotel where we once were happy, the noise of
slaughtering below in the kitchen drove me out into the glare of the
street, and later, that night, there was a vulture sitting in the
washbasin? Horrors portioned to a giant nerve! No, my secrets are of the
grave and must be kept. And this is how I sometimes think of myself, as
a great explorer who has discovered some extraordinary land from which
he can never return to give his knowledge to the world: but the name of
this land is hell.

It is not Mexico of course but in the heart. And to-day I was in
Quauhnahuac as usual when I received from my lawyer news of our divorce.
This was as I invited it. I received other news too: England is breaking
off diplomatic relations with Mexico and all her Consuls—those, that
is, who are English—are being called home. These are kindly and good
men, for the most part, whose name I suppose I demean. I shall not go
home with them. I shall perhaps go home but not to England, not to that
home. So, at midnight, I drove in the Plymouth to Tomalín to see my
Tlaxcaltecan friend Cervantes the cockfighter at the Salón Ofélia. And
thence I came to the Farolito in Parián where I sit now in a little room
off the bar at four-thirty in the morning drinking ochas and then mescal
and writing this on some Bella Vista notepaper I filched the other
night, perhaps because the writing paper at the Consulate, which is a
tomb, hurts me to look at. I think I know a good deal about physical
suffering. But this is worst of all, to feel your soul dying. I wonder
if it is because to-night my soul has really died that I feel at the
moment something like peace.

Or is it because right through hell there is a path, as Blake well knew,
and though I may not take it, sometimes lately in dreams I have been
able to see it? And here is one strange effect my lawyer’s news has had
upon me. I seem to see now, between mescals, this path, and beyond it
strange vistas, like visions of a new life together we might somewhere
lead. I seem to see us living in some northern country, of mountains and
hills and blue water; our house is built on an inlet and one evening we
are standing, happy in one another, on the balcony of this house,
looking over the water. There are sawmills half hidden by trees beyond
and under the hills on the other side of the inlet, what looks like an
oil refinery, only softened and rendered beautiful by distance.

It is a light blue moonless summer evening, but late, perhaps ten
o’clock, with Venus burning hard in daylight, so we are certainly
somewhere far north, and standing on this balcony, when from beyond
along the coast comes the gathering thunder of a long many-engined
freight train, thunder because though we are separated by this wide
strip of water from it, the train is rolling eastward and the changing
wind veers for the moment from an easterly quarter, and we face east,
like Swedenborg’s angels, under a sky clear save where far to the
northeast over distant mountains whose purple has faded, lies a mass of
almost pure white clouds, suddenly, as by a light in an alabaster lamp,
illumined from within by gold lightning, yet you can hear no thunder,
only the roar of the great train with its engines and its wide shunting
echoes as it advances from the hills into the mountains: and then all at
once a fishing boat with tall gear comes running round the point like a
white giraffe, very swift and stately, leaving directly behind it a long
silver scalloped rim of wake, not visibly moving inshore, but now
stealing ponderously beachward toward us, this scrolled silver rim of
wash striking the shore first in the distance, then spreading all along
the curve of beach, its growing thunder and commotion now joined to the
diminishing thunder of the train, and now breaking reboant on our beach,
while the floats, for there are timber diving floats, are swayed
together, everything jostled and beautifully ruffled and stirred and
tormented in this rolling sleeked silver, then little by little calm
again, and you see the reflection of the remote white thunderclouds in
the water, and now the lightning within the white clouds in deep water,
as the fishing-boat itself with a golden scroll of travelling light in
its silver wake beside it reflected from the cabin vanishes round the
headland, silence, and then again, within the white white distant
alabaster thunderclouds beyond the mountains, the thunderless gold
lightning in the blue evening, unearthly . . .

And as we stand looking all at once comes the wash of another unseen
ship, like a great wheel, the vast spokes of the wheel whirling across
the bay—

(Several mescals later.) Since December, 1937, and you went, and it is
now I hear the spring of 1938, I have been deliberately struggling
against my love for you. I dared not submit to it. I have grasped at
every root and branch which would help me across this abyss in my life
by myself but I can deceive myself no longer. If I am to survive I need
your help. Otherwise, sooner or later, I shall fall. Ah, if only you had
given me something in memory to hate you for so finally no kind thought
of you would ever touch me in this terrible place where I am! But
instead you sent me those letters. Why did you send the first ones to
Wells Fargo in Mexico City, by the way? Can it be you didn’t realise I
was still here? Or—if in Oaxaca—that Quauhnahuac was still my base.
That is very peculiar. It would have been so easy to find out too. And
if you’d only written me _right away_ also, it might have been
different—sent me a postcard even, out of the common anguish of our
separation, appealing simply to _us_, in spite of all, to end the
absurdity immediately—somehow, anyhow—and saying we loved each other,
something, or a telegram, simple. But you waited too long—or so it
seems now, till after Christmas—Christmas!—and the New Year, and then
what you sent I couldn’t read. No: I have scarcely been once free enough
from torment or sufficiently sober to apprehend more than the governing
design of any of these letters. But I could, can feel them. I think I
have some of them on me. But they are too painful to read, they seem too
long digested. I shall not attempt it now. I cannot read them. They
break my heart. And they came too late anyway. And now I suppose there
will be no more.

Alas, but why have I not pretended at least that I had read them,
accepted some meed of retraction in the fact that they were sent? And
why did I not send a telegram or some word immediately? Ah, why not, why
not, why not? For I suppose you would have come back in due course if I
had asked you. But this is what it is to live in hell. I could not,
cannot ask you. I could not, cannot send a telegram. I have stood here,
and in Mexico City, in the Compañía Telegráfica Mexicana, and in Oaxaca,
trembling and sweltering in the post office and writing telegrams all
afternoon, when I had drunk enough to steady my hand, without having
sent one. And I once had some number of yours and actually called you
long distance to Los Angeles though without success. And another time
the telephone broke down. Then why do I not come to America myself? I am
too ill to arrange about the tickets, to suffer the shaking delirium of
the endless weary cactus plains. And why go to America to die? Perhaps I
would not mind being buried in the United States. But I think I would
prefer to die in Mexico.

Meantime do you see me as still working on the book, still trying to
answer such questions as: Is there any ultimate reality, external,
conscious and ever-present etc. etc. that can be realised by any such
means that may be acceptable to all creeds and religions and suitable to
all climes and countries? Or do you find me between Mercy and
Understanding, between Chesed and Binah (but still at Chesed)—my
equilibrium, and equilibrium is all, precarious—balancing, teetering
over the awful unbridgeable void, the all-but-unretraceable path of
God’s lightning back to God? As if I ever were in Chesed! More like the
Qliphoth. When I should have been producing obscure volumes of verse
entitled the Triumph of Humpty Dumpty or the Nose with the Luminous
Dong! Or at best, like Clare, “weaving fearful vision” . . . A
frustrated poet in every man. Though it is perhaps a good idea under the
circumstances to pretend at least to be proceeding with one’s great work
on “Secret Knowledge,” then one can always say when it never comes out
that the title explains this deficiency.

—But alas for the Knight of Sorry Aspect! For oh, Yvonne, I am so
haunted continuously by the thought of your songs, of your warmth and
merriment, of your simplicity and comradeship, of your abilities in a
hundred ways, your fundamental sanity, your untidiness, your equally
excessive neatness—the sweet beginnings of our marriage. Do you
remember the Strauss song we used to sing? Once a year the dead live for
one day. Oh come to me again as once in May. The Generalife Gardens and
the Alhambra Gardens. And shadows of our fate at our meeting in Spain.
The Hollywood bar in Granada. Why Hollywood? And the nunnery there: why
Los Angeles? And in Malaga, the Pensión México. And yet nothing can ever
take the place of the unity we once knew and which Christ alone knows
must still exist somewhere. Knew even in Paris—before Hugh came. Is
this an illusion too? I am being completely maudlin certainly. But no
one can take your place; I ought to know by now, I laugh as I write
this, whether I love you or not . . . Sometimes I am possessed by a most
powerful feeling, a despairing bewildered jealousy which, when deepened
by drink, turns into a desire to destroy myself by my own
imagination—not at least to be the prey of—ghosts—

(Several mescalitos later and dawn in the Farolito) . . . Time is a fake
healer anyhow. How can anyone presume to tell me about you? You cannot
know the sadness of my life. Endlessly haunted waking and sleeping by
the thought that you may need my help, which I cannot give, as I need
yours, which you cannot, seeing you in visions and in every shadow, I
have been compelled to write this, which I shall never send, to ask you
what we can do. Is not that extraordinary? And yet—do we not owe it to
ourselves, to that self we created, apart from us, to try again? Alas,
what has happened to the love and understanding we once had! What is
going to happen to it—what is going to happen to our hearts? Love is
the only thing which gives meaning to our poor ways on earth: not
precisely a discovery, I am afraid. You will think I am mad, but this is
how I drink too, as if I were taking an eternal sacrament. Oh Yvonne, we
cannot allow what we created to sink down to oblivion in this dingy
fashion—

Lift up your eyes unto the hills, I seem to hear a voice saying.
Sometimes, when I see the little red mail plane fly in from Acapulco at
seven in the morning over the strange hills, or more probably hear,
lying trembling, shaking and dying in bed (when I am in bed at that
time)—just a tiny roar and gone—as I reach out babbling for the glass
of mescal, the drink that I can never believe even in raising to my lips
is real, that I have had the marvellous foresight to put within easy
reach the night before, I think that you will be on it, on that plane
every morning as it goes by, and will have come to save me. Then the
morning goes by and you have not come. But oh, I pray for this now, that
you will come. On second thoughts I do not see why from Acapulco. But
for God’s sake, Yvonne, hear me, my defences are down, at the moment
they are down—and there goes the plane, I heard it in the distance
then, just for an instant, beyond Tomalín—come back, come back. I will
stop drinking, anything. I am dying without you. For Christ Jesus sake
Yvonne come back to me, hear me, it is a cry, come back to me, Yvonne,
if only for a day . . . . . .

M. Laruelle began very slowly to fold up the letter again, smoothing the
creases carefully between finger and thumb, then almost without thinking
he had crumpled it up. He sat holding the crumpled paper in one fist on
the table staring, deeply abstracted, around him. In the last five
minutes the scene within the cantina had wholly changed. Outside the
storm seemed over but the Cervecería XX meantime had filled with
peasants, evidently refugees from it. They were not sitting at the
tables, which were empty—for while the show had still not recommenced
most of the audience had filed back into the theatre, now fairly quiet
as in immediate anticipation of it—but crowded by the bar. And there
was a beauty and a sort of piety about this scene. In the cantina both
the candles and the dim electric lights still burned. A peasant held two
little girls by the hand while the floor was covered with baskets,
mostly empty and leaning against each other, and now the barman was
giving the younger of the two children an orange: someone went out, the
little girl sat on the orange, the jalousie door swung and swung and
swung. M. Laruelle looked at his watch—Vigil would not come for half an
hour yet—and again at the crumpled pages in his hand. The fresh
coolness of rain-washed air came through the jalousie into the cantina
and he could hear the rain dripping off the roofs and the water still
rushing down the gutters in the street and from the distance once more
the sounds of the fair. He was about to replace the crumpled letter in
the book when, half absently, yet on a sudden definite impulse, he held
it into the candle flame. The flare lit up the whole cantina with a
burst of brilliance in which the figures at the bar—that he now saw
included besides the little children and the peasants who were quince or
cactus farmers in loose white clothes and wide hats, several women in
mourning from the cemeteries and dark-faced men in dark suits with open
collars and their ties undone—appeared, for an instant, frozen, a
mural: they had all stopped talking and were gazing round at him
curiously, all save the barman who seemed momentarily about to object,
then lost interest as M. Laruelle set the writhing mass in an ashtray,
where beautifully conforming it folded upon itself, a burning castle,
collapsed, subsided to a ticking hive through which sparks like tiny red
worms crawled and flew, while above a few grey wisps of ashes floated in
the thin smoke, a dead husk now, faintly crepitant . . .

Suddenly from outside, a bell spoke out, then ceased abruptly: _dolente
. . . dolore!_

Over the town, in the dark tempestuous night, backwards revolved the
luminous wheel.




                                   II


. . . “A CORPSE will be transported by express!”

The tireless resilient voice that had just lobbed this singular remark
over the Bella Vista bar windowsill into the square was, though its
owner remained unseen, unmistakable and achingly familiar as the
spacious flower-boxed balconied hotel itself, and as unreal, Yvonne
thought.

“But why, Fernando, why should a corpse be transported by express, do
you suppose?”

The Mexican taxidriver, familiar too, who’d just picked up her
bags—there’d been no taxi at the tiny Quauhnahuac air field though,
only the bumptious station wagon that insisted on taking her to the
Bella Vista—put them down again on the pavement as to assure her: I
know why you’re here, but no one’s recognized you except me, and I won’t
give you away. “Sí, señora,” he chuckled. “Señora—El Cónsul.” Sighing,
he inclined his head with a certain admiration toward the bar window.
“Qué hombre!”

“—on the other hand, damn it, Fernando, why shouldn’t it? Why shouldn’t
a corpse be transported by express?”

“Absolutamente necesario.”

“—_just a bunch of Alladamnbama farmers!_”

The last was yet another voice. So the bar, open all night for the
occasion, was evidently full. Ashamed, numb with nostalgia and anxiety,
reluctant to enter the crowded bar, though equally reluctant to have the
taxidriver go in for her, Yvonne, her consciousness so lashed by wind
and air and voyage she still seemed to be travelling, still sailing into
Acapulco harbour yesterday evening through a hurricane of immense and
gorgeous butterflies swooping seaward to greet the _Pennsylvania_—at
first it was as though fountains of multi-coloured stationery were being
swept out of the saloon lounge—glanced defensively round the square,
really tranquil in the midst of this commotion, of the butterflies still
zigzagging overhead or past the heavy open ports, endlessly vanishing
astern, _their_ square, motionless and brilliant in the seven o’clock
morning sunlight, silent yet somehow poised, expectant, with one eye
half open already, the merry-go-rounds, the Ferris wheel, lightly
dreaming, looking forward to the fiesta later—the ranged rugged taxis
too that were looking forward to something else, a taxi strike that
afternoon, she’d been confidentially informed. The zócalo was just the
same in spite of its air of slumbering Harlequin. The old bandstand
stood empty, the equestrian statue of the turbulent Huerta rode under
the nutant trees wild-eyed ever more, gazing over the valley beyond
which, as if nothing had happened and it was November 1936 and not
November 1938, rose, eternally, her volcanoes, her beautiful beautiful
volcanoes. Ah, how familiar it all was: Quauhnahuac, her town of cold
mountain water swiftly running. Where the eagle stops! Or did it really
mean, as Louis said, near the wood? The trees, the massive shining
depths of these ancient fresno trees, how had she ever lived without
them? She drew a deep breath, the air had yet a hint about it of dawn,
the dawn this morning at Acapulco—green and deep purple high above and
gold scrolled back to reveal a river of lapis where the horn of Venus
burned so fiercely she could imagine her dim shadow cast from its light
on the air field, the vultures floating lazily up there above the
brick-red horizon into whose peaceful foreboding the little plane of the
Compañía Mexicana de Aviación had ascended, like a minute red demon,
winged emissary of Lucifer, the windsock below streaming out its
steadfast farewell.

She took in the zócalo with a long final look—the untenanted ambulance
that might not have moved since she’d last been here, outside the
Servicio de Ambulancia within Cortez Palace, the huge paper poster
strung between two trees which said _Hotel Bella Vista Gran Baile
Noviembre 1938 a Beneficio de la Cruz Roja. Los Mejores Artistas del
radio en acción. No falte Vd._, beneath which some of the guests were
returning home, pallid and exhausted as the music that struck up at this
moment and reminded her the ball was still proceeding—then entered the
bar silently, blinking, myopic in the swift leathery perfumed alcoholic
dusk, the sea that morning going in with her, rough and pure, the long
dawn rollers advancing, rising, and crashing down to glide, sinking, in
colourless ellipses over the sand, while early pelicans hunting turned
and dived, dived and turned and dived again into the spume, moving with
the precision of planets, the spent breakers racing back to their calm;
flotsam was scattered all along the beach: she had heard, from the small
boats tossing in the Spanish Main, the boys, like young Tritons, already
beginning to blow on their mournful conch shells . . .

The bar was empty, however.

Or rather it contained one figure. Still in his dress clothes, which
weren’t particularly dishevelled, the Consul, a lock of fair hair
falling over his eyes and one hand clasped in his short pointed beard,
was sitting sideways with one foot on the rail of an adjacent stool at
the small right-angled counter, half leaning over it and talking
apparently to himself, for the barman, a sleek dark lad of about
eighteen, stood at a little distance against a glass partition that
divided the room (from yet another bar, she remembered now, giving on a
sidestreet) and didn’t have the air of listening. Yvonne stood there
silently by the door, unable to make a move, watching, the roar of the
plane still with her, the buffeting of wind and air as they left the sea
behind, the roads below still climbing and dropping, the little towns
still steadily passing with their humped churches, Quauhnahuac with all
its cobalt swimming pools rising again obliquely to meet her. But the
exhilaration of her flight, of mountain piled on mountain, the terrific
onslaught of sunlight while the earth turned yet in shadow, a river
flashing, a gorge winding darkly beneath, the volcanoes abruptly
wheeling into view from the glowing east, the exhilaration and the
longing had left her. Yvonne felt her spirit that had flown to meet this
man’s as if already sticking to the leather. She saw she was mistaken
about the barman: he was listening after all. That is, while he mightn’t
understand what Geoffrey (who was, she noticed, wearing no socks) was
talking about, he was waiting, his towelled hands overhauling the
glasses ever more slowly, for an opening to say or do something. He set
the glass he was drying down. Then he picked up the Consul’s cigarette,
which was consuming itself in an ashtray at the counter edge, inhaled it
deeply, closing his eyes with an expression of playful ecstasy, opened
them and pointed, scarcely exhaling now the slow billowing smoke from
his nostrils and mouth, at an advertisement for _Cafeaspirina_, a woman
wearing a scarlet brassière lying on a scrolled divan, behind the upper
row of _tequila añejo_ bottles. “Absolutamente necesario,” he said, and
Yvonne realized it was the woman, not the _Cafeaspirina_, he meant (the
Consul’s phrase doubtless) was absolutely necessary. But he hadn’t
attracted the Consul’s attention, so he closed his eyes again with the
same expression, opened them, replaced the Consul’s cigarette, and,
still exuding smoke, pointed once more to the advertisement—next it she
noticed one for the local cinema, simply, _Las Manos de Orlac, con Peter
Lorre_—and repeated: “Absolutamente necesario.”

“A corpse, whether adult or child,” the Consul had resumed, after
briefly pausing to laugh at this pantomime, and to agree, with a kind of
agony, “Sí, Fernando, absolutamente necesario,”—and it is a ritual, she
thought, a ritual between them, as there were once rituals between us,
only Geoffrey has gotten a little bored with it at last—resumed his
study of a blue and red Mexican National Railways timetable. Then he
looked up abruptly and saw her, peering shortsightedly about him before
recognizing her, standing there, a little blurred probably because the
sunlight was behind her, with one hand thrust through the handle of her
scarlet bag resting on her hip, standing there as she knew he must see
her, half jaunty, a little diffident.

Still holding the timetable the Consul built himself to his feet as she
came forward. “—_Good_ God.”

Yvonne hesitated but he made no move towards her; she slipped quietly
onto a stool beside him; they did not kiss.

“Surprise party. I’ve come back . . . My plane got in an hour ago.”

“—when Alabama comes through we ask nobody any questions,” came
suddenly from the bar on the other side of the glass partition: “We come
through with heels flying!”

“—From Acapulco, Hornos . . . I came by boat, Geoff, from San
Pedro—Panama Pacific. The _Pennsylvania_. Geoff—”

“—bull-headed Dutchmen! The sun parches the lips and they crack. Oh
Christ, it’s a shame! The horses all go away kicking in the dust! I
wouldn’t have it. They plugged ’em too. They don’t miss it. They shoot
first and ask questions later. You’re goddam right. And that’s a nice
thing to say. I take a bunch of goddamned farmers, then ask them no
questions. Righto!—smoke a cool cigarette—”

“Don’t you love these early mornings.” The Consul’s voice, but not his
hand, was perfectly steady as now he put the timetable down. “Have, as
our friend next door suggests,” he inclined his head toward the
partition, “a—” the name on the trembling, offered, and rejected
cigarette package struck her: Alas! “—”

The Consul was saying with gravity: “Ah, Hornos.—But why come via Cape
Horn? It has a bad habit of wagging its tail, sailors tell me. Or does
it mean ovens?”

“—Calle Nicaragua, cincuenta dos.” Yvonne pressed a tostón on a dark
god by this time in possession of her bags who bowed and disappeared
obscurely.

“What if I didn’t live there any longer.” The Consul, sitting down
again, was shaking so violently he had to hold the bottle of whiskey he
was pouring himself a drink from with both hands. “Have a drink?”

“—”

Or should she? She should: even though she hated drinking in the morning
she undoubtedly should: it was what she had made up her mind to do if
necessary, not to have one drink alone but a great many drinks with the
Consul. But instead she could feel the smile leaving her face that was
struggling to keep back the tears she had forbidden herself on any
account, thinking and knowing Geoffrey knew she was thinking: “I was
prepared for this, I was prepared for it.” “You have one and I’ll
cheer,” she found herself saying. (As a matter of fact she had been
prepared for almost anything. After all, what could one expect? She had
told herself all the way down on the ship, a ship because she would have
time on board to persuade herself her journey was neither thoughtless
nor precipitate, and on the plane when she knew it was both, that she
should have warned him, that it was abominably unfair to take him by
surprise.) “Geoffrey,” she went on, wondering if she seemed pathetic
sitting there, all her carefully thought-out speeches, her plans and
tact so obviously vanishing in the gloom, or merely repellent—she felt
slightly repellent—because she wouldn’t have a drink. “What have you
done? I wrote you and wrote you. I wrote till my heart broke What have
you done with your—”

“—life,” came from beyond the glass partition. “What a life! Christ
it’s a shame! Where I come from they don’t run. We’re going through
busting this way—”

“—No. I thought of course you’d returned to England, when you didn’t
answer. What have you done? Oh Geoff—have you resigned from the
service?”

“—went down to Fort Sale. Took your shoeshot. And took your
Brownings.—Jump, jump, jump, jump, jump—see, get it?—”

“I ran into Louis in Santa Barbara. He said you were still here.”

“—and like hell you can, you can’t do it, and that’s what you do in
Alabama!”

“Well, actually I’ve only been away once.” The Consul took a long
shuddering drink, then sat down again beside her. “To Oaxaca.—Remember
Oaxaca?”

“—Oaxaca?—”

“—Oaxaca.—”

—The word was like a breaking heart, a sudden peal of stifled bells in
a gale, the last syllables of one dying of thirst in the desert. Did she
remember Oaxaca! The roses and the great tree, was that, the dust and
the buses to Etla and Nochitlán? and: “_damas acompañadas de un
caballero, gratis!_” Or at night their cries of love, rising into the
ancient fragrant Mayan air, heard only by ghosts? In Oaxaca they had
found each other once. She was watching the Consul who seemed less on
the defensive than in process while straightening out the leaflets on
the bar of changing mentally from the part played for Fernando to the
part he would play for her, watching him almost with amazement: “Surely
this cannot be us,” she cried in her heart suddenly. “This cannot be
us—say that it is not, somebody, this cannot be us here!”—Divorce.
What did the word really mean? She’d looked it up in the dictionary, on
the ship: to sunder, to sever. And divorced meant: sundered, severed.
Oaxaca meant divorce. They had not been divorced there but that was
where the Consul had gone when she left, as if into the heart of the
sundering, of the severance. Yet they had loved one another! But it was
as though their love were wandering over some desolate cactus plain, far
from here, lost, stumbling and falling, attacked by wild beasts, calling
for help—dying, to sigh at last, with a kind of weary peace: Oaxaca—

—“The strange thing about this little corpse, Yvonne,” the Consul was
saying, “is that it must be accompanied by a person holding its hand:
no, sorry. Apparently not its hand, just a first-class ticket.” He held
up, smiling, his own right hand which shook as with a movement of wiping
chalk from an imaginary blackboard. “It’s really the shakes that make
this kind of life insupportable. But they will stop: I was only drinking
enough so they would. Just the necessary, the therapeutic drink.” Yvonne
looked back at him. “—but the shakes are the worst of course,” he was
going on. “You get to like the other after a while, and I’m really doing
very well, I’m much better than I was six months ago, very much better
than I was, say, in Oaxaca”—noticing a curious familiar glare in his
eyes that always frightened her, a glare turned inward now like one of
those sombrely brilliant cluster-lamps down the hatches of the
_Pennsylvania_ on the work of unloading, only this was a work of
spoliation: and she felt a sudden dread lest this glare, as of old,
should swing outward, turn upon her.

“God knows I’ve seen you like this before,” her thoughts were saying,
her love was saying, through the gloom of the bar, “too many times for
it to be a surprise anyhow. You are denying me again. But this time
there is a profound difference. This is like an ultimate denial—oh
Geoffrey, why can’t you turn back? Must you go on and on forever into
this stupid darkness, seeking it, even now, where I cannot reach you,
ever on into the darkness of the sundering, of the severance!—Oh
Geoffrey, why do you do it!”

“But look here, hang it all, it is not altogether darkness,” the Consul
seemed to be saying in reply to her, gently, as he produced a
half-filled pipe and with the utmost difficulty lit it, and as her eyes
followed his as they roved around the bar, not meeting those of the
barman, who had gravely, busily effaced himself into the background,
“you misunderstand me if you think it is altogether darkness I see, and
if you insist on thinking so, how can I tell you why I do it? But if you
look at that sunlight there, ah, then perhaps you’ll get the answer,
see, look at the way it falls through the window: what beauty can
compare to that of a cantina in the early morning? Your volcanoes
outside? Your stars—Ras Algethi? Antares raging south southeast?
Forgive me, no. Not so much the beauty of this one necessarily, which, a
regression on my part, is not perhaps properly a cantina, but think of
all the other terrible ones where people go mad that will soon be taking
down their shutters, for not even the gates of heaven, opening wide to
receive me, could fill me with such celestial complicated and hopeless
joy as the iron screen that rolls up with a crash, as the unpadlocked
jostling jalousies which admit those whose souls tremble with the drinks
they carry unsteadily to their lips. All mystery, all hope, all
disappointment, yes, all disaster, is here, beyond those swinging doors.
And, by the way, do you see that old woman from Tarasco sitting in the
corner, you didn’t before, but do you now?” his eyes asked her, gazing
round him with the bemused unfocussed brightness of a lover’s, his love
asked her, “how, unless you drink as I do, can you hope to understand
the beauty of an old woman from Tarasco who plays dominoes at seven
o’clock in the morning?”

It was true, it was almost uncanny, there _was_ someone else in the room
she hadn’t noticed until the Consul, without a word, had glanced behind
them: now Yvonne’s eyes came to rest on the old woman, who was sitting
in the shadow at the bar’s one table. On the edge of the table her
stick, made of steel with some animal’s claw for a handle, hung like
something alive. She had a little chicken on a cord which she kept under
her dress over her heart. The chicken peeped out with pert, jerky,
sidelong glances. She set the little chicken on a table near her where
it pecked among the dominoes, uttering tiny cries. Then she replaced it,
drawing her dress tenderly over it. But Yvonne looked away. The old
woman with her chicken and the dominoes chilled her heart. It was like
an evil omen.

—“Talking of corpses,”—the Consul poured himself another whiskey and
was signing a chit book with a somewhat steadier hand while Yvonne
sauntered toward the door—“personally I’d like to be buried next to
William Blackstone—” He pushed the book back for Fernando, to whom
mercifully he had not attempted to introduce her. “The man who went to
live among the Indians. You know who he was, of course?” The Consul
stood half turned toward her, doubtfully regarding this new drink he had
not picked up.

“—Christ, if you want it, Alabama, go ahead and take it . . . I don’t
want it. But if you wish it, you go and take it.”

“Absolutamente necesario—”

The Consul left half of it.

Outside, in the sunlight, in the backwash of tabid music from the
still-continuing ball, Yvonne waited again, casting nervous glances over
her shoulder at the main entrance of the hotel from which belated
revellers like half-dazed wasps out of a hidden nest issued every few
moments while, on the instant, correct, abrupt, army and navy, consular,
the Consul, with scarce a tremor now, found a pair of dark glasses and
put them on.

“Well,” he said, “the taxis seem to have all disappeared. Shall we
walk?”

“Why what’s happened to the car?” So confused by apprehension of meeting
any acquaintance was she, Yvonne had almost taken the arm of another man
wearing dark glasses, a ragged young Mexican leaning against the hotel
wall to whom the Consul, slapping his stick over his wrist and with
something enigmatic in his voice observed: “Buenas tardes, señor.”
Yvonne started forward quickly. “Yes, let’s walk.”

The Consul took her arm with courtliness (the ragged Mexican with the
dark glasses had been joined, she noticed, by another man with a shade
over one eye and bare feet who had been leaning against the wall further
down, to whom the Consul also remarked “Buenas tardes,” but there were
no more guests coming out of the hotel, only the two men who’d politely
called “Buenas” after them standing there nudging each other as if to
say: “He said ‘Buenas tardes,’ what a card he is!”) and they set off
obliquely through the square. The fiesta wouldn’t start till much later
and the streets that remembered so many other Days of the Dead were
fairly deserted. The bright banners, the paper streamers, flashed: the
great wheel brooded under the trees, brilliant, motionless. Even so the
town around and below them was already full of sharp remote noises like
explosions of rich colour. ¡Box! said an advertisement. =arena
tomalín.= _Frente al Jardín Xicotancatl. Domingo 8 de Noviembre de
1938. 4 Emocionantes Peleas._

Yvonne tried to keep herself from asking:

“Did you smack the car up again?”

“As a matter of fact I’ve lost it.”

“_Lost_ it!”

“It’s a pity because—but look here, dash it all, aren’t you terribly
tired, Yvonne?”

“Not in the least! I should think you’re the one to be—”

—¡Box! _Preliminar a 4 Rounds._ EL TURCO (_Gonzalo Calderón de Par. de
52 kilos_) _vs._ EL OSO (_de Par. de 53 kilos_).

“I had a million hours of sleep on the boat! And I’d _far_ rather walk,
only—”

“Nothing. Just a touch of rheumatiz.—Or is it the sprue? I’m glad to
get some circulation going in the old legs.”

—¡Box! _Evento Especial a 5 Rounds, en los que el vencedor pasará al
grupo de Semi-Finales._ TOMÁS AGUERO (_el Invencible Indio de
Quauhnahuac de 57 kilos, que acaba de llegar de la Capital de la
República_). ARENA TOMALÍN. _Frente al Jardín Xicotancatl._

“It’s a pity about the car because we might have gone to the boxing,”
said the Consul, who was walking almost exaggeratedly erect.

“I hate boxing.”

“—But that’s not till next Sunday anyhow . . . I heard they had some
kind of a bullthrowing on to-day over at Tomalín.—Do you remember—”

“No!”

The Consul, with no more recognition than she, held up one finger in
dubious greeting to an individual resembling a carpenter, running past
them wagging his head and carrying a sawed length of grained board under
his arm and who threw, almost chanted, a laughing word at him that
sounded like: “Mesca_li_to!”

The sunlight blazed down on them, blazed on the eternal ambulance whose
headlights were momentarily transformed into a blinding magnifying
glass, glazed on the volcanoes—she could not look at them now. Born in
Hawaii, she’d had volcanoes in her life before, however. Seated on a
park bench under a tree in the square, his feet barely touching the
ground, the little public scribe was already crashing away on a giant
typewriter.

“I am taking the only way out, semicolon,” the Consul offered cheerfully
and soberly in passing. “Good-bye, full stop. Change of paragraph,
change of chapter, change of worlds—”

The whole scene about her—the names on the shops surrounding the
square: _La China Poblana, hand-embroidered, dresses_, the
advertisements: _Baños de la Libertad_, _Los mejores de la Capital y los
únicos en donde nunca falta el agua_, _Estufas especiales para Damas y
Caballeros_: and _Sr. Panadero: Sí quiere hacer buen pan exija las
harinas “Princesa Donaji”_—striking Yvonne as so strangely familiar all
over again and yet so sharply strange after the year’s absence, the
severance of thought and body, mode of being, became almost intolerable
for a moment. “You might have made use of him to answer some of _my_
letters,” she said.

“Look, do you remember what Maria used to call it?” The Consul, with his
stick, was indicating through the trees the little American grocery
store, catercorner to Cortez Palace. “Peegly Weegly.”

“I won’t,” Yvonne thought, hurrying on and biting her lips. “I won’t
cry.”

The Consul had taken her arm. “I’m sorry, I never thought.”

They emerged on the street again. When they had crossed it she was
grateful for the excuse suggested by the printer’s shop window for
readjustment. They stood, as once, looking in. The shop, adjacent to the
Palace, but divided from it by the breadth of a steep narrow street
desperate as a winze, was opening early. From the mirror within the
window an ocean creature so drenched and coppered by sun and winnowed by
sea-wind and spray looked back at her she seemed, even while making the
fugitive motions of Yvonne’s vanity, somewhere beyond human grief
charioting the surf. But the sun turned grief to poison and a glowing
body only mocked the sick heart, Yvonne knew, if that sun-darkened
creature of waves and sea margins and windrows did not! In the window
itself, on either side of this abstracted gaze of her mirrored face, the
same brave wedding invitations she remembered were ranged, the same
touched-up prints of extravagantly floriferous brides, but this time
there was something she hadn’t seen before, which the Consul now pointed
out with a murmur of “Strange,” peering closer: a photographic
enlargement, purporting to show the disintegration of a glacial deposit
in the Sierra Madre, of a great rock split by forest fires. This
curious, and curiously sad picture—to which the nature of the other
exhibits lent an added ironic poignance—set behind and above the
already spinning flywheel of the presses, was called: La Despedida.

They moved on past the front of Cortez Palace, then down its blind side
began to descend the cliff that traversed it widthways. Their path made
the short cut to the Calle Tierra del Fuego which curved below to meet
them but the cliff was little better than a rubbish heap with
smouldering debris and they had to pick their way carefully. Yvonne
breathed more freely though, now they were leaving the centre of the
town behind. _La Despedida_, she thought. The Parting! After the damp
and detritus had done their work both severed halves of that blasted
rock would crumble to earth. It was inevitable, so it said on the
picture . . . Was it really? Wasn’t there some way of saving the poor
rock whose immutability so short a time ago no one would have dreamed of
doubting! Ah, who would have thought of it then as other than a single
integrated rock? But granted it had been split, was there no way before
total disintegration should set in of at least saving the severed
halves? There was no way. The violence of the fire which split the rock
apart had also incited the destruction of each separate rock, cancelling
the power that might have held them unities. Oh, but why—by some
fanciful geologic thaumaturgy, couldn’t the pieces be welded together
again! She longed to heal the cleft rock. She was one of the rocks and
she yearned to save the other, that both might be saved. By a
super-lapidary effort she moved herself nearer it, poured out her pleas,
her passionate tears, told all her forgiveness: the other rock stood
unmoved. “That’s all very well,” it said, “but it happens to be your
fault, and as for myself, I propose to disintegrate as I please!”

“—in Tortu,” the Consul was saying, though Yvonne was not following,
and now they had come out in the Calle Tierra del Fuego itself, a rough
narrow dusty street that, deserted, looked quite unfamiliar. The Consul
was beginning to shake again.

“Geoffrey, I’m so thirsty, why don’t we stop and have a drink?”

“Geoffrey, let’s be reckless this once and get tight together before
breakfast!”

Yvonne said neither of these things.

—The Street of the Land of Fire! To their left, raised high above road
level, were uneven sidewalks with rough steps hewn in them. The whole
little thoroughfare, slightly humpbacked in the centre where the open
sewers had been filled in, was banked sharply down to the right as
though it had once sideslipped in an earthquake. On this side
one-storied houses with tiled roofs and oblong barred windows stood
flush with the street but seemingly below it. On the other, above them,
they were passing small shops, sleepy, though mostly opening or, like
the “Molino para Nixtamal, Morelense,” open: harness shops, a milk shop
under its sign _Lechería_ (brothel, someone insisted it meant, and she
hadn’t seen the joke), dark interiors with strings of tiny sausages,
chorizos, hanging over the counters where you could also buy goat cheese
or sweet quince wine or cacao, into one of which the Consul was now,
with a “momentito,” disappearing. “Just go on and I’ll catch you up. I
won’t be a jiffy.”

Yvonne walked on past the place a short distance, then retraced her
steps. She had not entered any of these shops since their first week in
Mexico and the danger of being recognized in the abarrotes was slight.
Nevertheless, repenting her tardy impulse to follow the Consul in, she
waited outside, restless as a little yacht turning at anchor. The
opportunity to join him ebbed. A mood of martyrdom stole upon her. She
wanted the Consul to see her, when he emerged, waiting there, abandoned
and affronted. But glancing back the way they had come she forgot
Geoffrey an instant.—It was unbelievable. She was in Quauhnahuac again!
There was Cortez Palace and there, high on the cliff, a man standing
gazing over the valley who from his air of martial intentness might have
been Cortez himself. The man moved, spoiling the illusion. Now he looked
less like Cortez than the poor young man in the dark glasses who’d been
leaning against the wall of the Bella Vista.

“_You-are-a-man-who-like-much-_Vine!” now issued powerfully from the
abarrotes into the peaceful street, followed by a roar of incredibly
good-humoured but ruffianly male laughter. “You are—_diablo_!” There
was a pause in which she heard the Consul saying something. “_Eggs!_”
the good-humoured voice exploded again. “You—_two_ diablos! You _tree_
diablos.” The voice cackled with glee. “_Eggs!_” Then: “Who is the
beauful _layee_?—Ah, you are—ah _five_ diablos, you ah—_Eggs!_”
ludicrously followed the Consul who appeared at this moment, calmly
smiling, on the pavement above Yvonne.

“In Tortu,” he was saying, as, steadier again, he fell into step beside
her, “the ideal University, where no application whatsoever, so I have
heard on good authority, nothing, not even athletics, is allowed to
interfere with the business of—look out! . . . drinking.”

It came sailing out of nowhere, the child’s funeral, the tiny
lace-covered coffin followed by the band: two saxophones, bass guitar, a
fiddle, playing of all things “La Cucaracha,” the women behind, very
solemn, while several paces back a few hangers-on were joking,
straggling along in the dust almost at a run.

They stood to one side while the little cortège slanted by swiftly in
the direction of the town, then walked on in silence not looking at one
another. The banking of the street now became less acute and the
sidewalks and the shops dropped away. To the left there was only a low
blank wall with vacant lots behind it, whereas to the right the houses
had turned into low open shanties filled with black carbon. Yvonne’s
heart, that had been struggling with an insufferable pang, suddenly
missed a beat. Though one might not think it they were approaching the
residential district, their own terrain.

“Do look where you’re going, Geoffrey!” But it was Yvonne who had
stumbled rounding the right-angled corner into the Calle Nicaragua. The
Consul regarded her without expression as she stared up into the sun at
the bizarre house opposite them near the head of their street, with two
towers and a connecting catwalk over the ridgepole, at which someone
else, a peon with his back turned, was also gazing curiously.

“Yes, it’s still there, it hasn’t budged an inch,” he said, and now they
had passed the house to their left with its inscription on the wall she
didn’t want to see and were walking down the Calle Nicaragua.

“Yet the street looks different somehow.” Yvonne relapsed into silence
again. Actually she was making a tremendous effort to control herself.
What she could not have explained was that recently in her picture of
Quauhnahuac this house hadn’t been here at all! On the occasions
imagination had led her with Geoffrey down the Calle Nicaragua lately,
never once, poor phantoms, had they been confronted with Jacques’
zacuali. It had vanished some time before, leaving not a trace, it was
as if the house had never existed, just as in the mind of a murderer, it
may happen, some prominent landmark in the vicinity of his crime becomes
obliterated, so that on returning to the neighborhood, once so familiar,
he scarcely knows where to turn. But the Calle Nicaragua didn’t really
look different. Here it was, still cluttered up with large grey loose
stones, full of the same lunar potholes, and in that well-known state of
frozen eruption that resembled repair but which in fact only testified
facetiously to the continued deadlock between the Municipality and the
property owners here over its maintenance. Calle Nicaragua!—the name,
despite everything, sang plangently within her: only that ridiculous
shock at Jacques’ house could account for her feeling, with one part of
her mind, calm as she did about it.

The road, broad, sidewalkless, ran with increasing steepness downhill,
mostly between high walls overhung by trees, though at the moment there
were more little carbon shanties to their right, down to a leftward
curve some three hundred yards away where roughly the same distance
again above their own house it was lost from sight. Trees blocked the
view beyond of low rolling hills. Nearly all the large residences were
on their left, built far back from the road toward the barranca in order
to face the volcanoes across the valley. She saw the mountains again in
the distance through a gap between two estates, a small field bounded by
a barbed wire fence and overflowing with tall spiny grasses tossed
wildly together as by a big wind that had abruptly ceased. There they
were, Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl, remote ambassadors of Mauna Loa,
Mokuaweoweo: dark clouds now obscured their base. The grass, she
thought, wasn’t as green as it should be at the end of the rains: there
must have been a dry spell, though the gutters on either side of the
road were brimful of rushing mountain water and—

“And he’s still there too. He hasn’t budged an inch either.” The Consul
without turning was nodding back in the direction of M. Laruelle’s
house.

“Who—who hasn’t—” Yvonne faltered. She glanced behind her: there was
only the peon who had stopped looking at the house and was going into an
alleyway.

“Jacques.”

“Jacques!”

“That’s right. In fact we’ve had terrific times together. We’ve been
slap through everything from Bishop Berkeley to the four o’clock
_mirabilis jalapa_.”

“You do _what_?”

“The Diplomatic Service.” The Consul had paused and was lighting his
pipe. “Sometimes I really think there’s something to be said for it.”

“—”

He stooped to float a match down the brimming gutter and somehow they
were moving, even hurrying on: she heard bemusedly the swift angry click
and crunch of her heels on the road and the Consul’s seemingly
effortless voice at her shoulder.

“For instance had you ever been British attaché to the White Russian
Embassy in Zagreb in 1922, and I’ve always thought a woman like you
would have done very well as attaché to the White Russian Embassy in
Zagreb in 1922, though God knows how it managed to survive that long,
you might have acquired a certain, I don’t say technique exactly, but a
mien, a mask, a way, at any rate, of throwing a look into your face at a
moment’s notice of sublime dishonest detachment.”

“—”

“Although I can very well see how it strikes you—how the picture of our
implied indifference, Jacques’ and mine that is, I mean, strikes you, as
being even more indecent than that, say, Jacques shouldn’t have left
when you did or that we shouldn’t have dropped the friendship.”

“—”

“But had you, Yvonne, ever been on the bridge of a British Q-ship, and
I’ve always thought a woman like you would have been very good on the
bridge of a British Q-ship—peering at the Tottenham Court Road through
a telescope, only figuratively speaking of course, day in and day out,
counting the waves, you might have learnt—”

“Please look where you’re going!”

“Though had you of course ever been Consul to Cuckoldshaven, that town
cursed by the lost love of Maximilian and Carlotta, then, why then—”

—¡BOX! ARENA TOMALÍN. EL BALÓN _vs._ EL REDONDILLO.

“But I don’t think I finished about the little corpse. What is really so
astonishing about him is that he has to be checked, actually checked, to
the U. S. Border of Exit. While the charges for him are equivalent to
two adult passengers—”

“—”

“However since you don’t seem to want to listen to me, here’s something
else perhaps I ought to tell you.”

“—”

“Something else, I repeat, very important, that perhaps I ought to tell
you.”

“Yes. What is it?”

“About Hugh.”

Yvonne said at last:

“You’ve heard from Hugh. How is he?”

“He’s staying with me.”

—¡BOX! ARENA TOMALÍN. FRENTE AL JARDÍN XICOTANCATL. _Domingo 8 de
Noviembre de 1938. 4 Emocionantes Peleas._ EL BALÓN _vs._ EL REDONDILLO.

_Las Manos de Orlac. Con Peter Lorre._

“_What!_” Yvonne stopped dead.

“It seems he’s been in America this time on a cattle ranch,” the Consul
was saying rather gravely as somehow, anyhow, they moved on, but this
time more slowly. “Why, heaven knows. It couldn’t be he was learning to
ride, but still, he turned up about a week ago in a distinctly unpukka
outfit, looking like Hoot S. Hart in the Riders to the Purple Sage.
Apparently he’d teleported himself, or been deported, from America by
cattletruck. I don’t pretend to know how the press get by in these
matters. Or maybe it was a bet . . . Anyhow he got as far as Chihuahua
with the cattle, and some gun-running gun-toting pal by the name
of—Weber?—I forget, anyway, I didn’t meet him, flew him the rest of
the way.” The Consul knocked out his pipe on his heel, smiling. “It
seems everyone comes flying to see me these days.”

“But—but _Hugh_—I don’t understand—”

“He’d lost his clothes en route but it wasn’t carelessness, if you can
believe it, only that they wanted to make him pay higher duty at the
border than they were worth, so quite naturally he left them behind. He
hadn’t lost his passport however, which was unusual perhaps because he’s
still somehow with—though I haven’t the foggiest in what capacity—the
London _Globe_ . . . Of course you knew he’s become quite famous lately.
For the second time, in case you weren’t aware of the first.”

“Did he know about our divorce?” Yvonne managed to ask.

The Consul shook his head. They walked on slowly, the Consul looking at
the ground.

“Did you tell him?”

The Consul was silent, walking more and more slowly. “What did I say,”
he said at length.

“Nothing, Geoff.”

“Well, he knows now that we’re separated, of course.” The Consul
decapitated a dusty coquelicot poppy growing by the side of the gutter
with his stick. “But he expected us both to be here. I gather he had
some idea we might let—but I avoided telling him the divorce had gone
through. That is, I think I did. I meant to avoid it. So far as I know,
honestly, I hadn’t got around to telling him when he left.”

“Then he’s not staying with you any longer.”

The Consul burst out in a laugh that became a cough. “Oh yes he is! He
most certainly is . . . In fact, I nearly passed out altogether under
the stress of his salvage operations. Which is to say he’s been trying
to ‘straighten me out.’ Can’t you see it? Can’t you recognize his fine
Italian hand? And he almost literally succeeded right off with some
malevolent strychnine compound he produced. But,” just for one moment
the Consul seemed to have difficulty placing one foot before another,
“to be more concrete, actually he did have a better reason for staying
than to play Theodore Watts Dunton. To my Swinburne.” The Consul
decapitated another poppy. “Mute Swinburne. He’d got wind of some story
while vacationing on the ranch and came after it here like a red rag
after a bull. Didn’t I tell you that? . . . Which—didn’t I say so
before?—is why he’s gone off to Mexico City.”

After a while Yvonne said weakly, scarcely hearing herself speak: “Well,
we may have a little time together, mayn’t we?”

“Quién sabe?”

“But you mean he’s in the City now,” she covered hastily.

“Oh, he’s throwing up the job—he might be home now. At any rate he’ll
be back to-day, I think. He says he wants ‘action.’ Poor old chap, he’s
wearing a very popular front indeed these days.” Whether the Consul was
being sincere or not he added, sympathetically enough, it sounded, “And
God alone knows what will be the end of that romantic little urge in
him.”

“And how will he feel,” Yvonne asked bravely all at once, “when he sees
you again?”

“Yes, well, not much difference, not enough time to show, but I’d just
been about to say,” the Consul went on with a slight hoarseness, “that
the terrific times, Laruelle’s and mine, I mean, ceased on the advent of
Hugh.” He was poking at the dust with his stick, making little patterns
for a minute as he went along, like a blind man. “They were mostly mine
because Jacques has a weak stomach and is usually sick after three
drinks and after four he would start to play the Good Samaritan, and
after five Theodore Watts Dunton too . . . So that I appreciated, so to
speak, a change of technique. At least to the extent that I find I shall
be grateful now, on Hugh’s behalf, if you’d say nothing to him—”

“Oh—”

The Consul cleared his throat. “Not that I have been drinking much of
course in his absence, and not that I’m not absolutely cold stone sober
now, as you can readily see.”

“Oh yes indeed,” Yvonne smiled, full of thoughts that had already swept
her a thousand miles in frantic retreat from all this. Yet she was
walking on slowly beside him. And deliberately as a climber on a high
unguarded place looks up at the pine trees above on the precipice and
comforts himself by saying: “Never mind about the drop below me, how
very much worse if I were on top of one of those pines up there!” she
forced herself out of the moment: she stopped thinking: or she thought
about the street again, remembering her last poignant glimpse of it—and
how even more desperate things had seemed then!—at the beginning of
that fateful journey to Mexico City, glancing back from the now lost
Plymouth as they turned the corner, crashing, crunching down on its
springs into the potholes, stopping dead, then crawling, leaping forward
again, keeping in, it didn’t matter on which side, to the walls. They
were higher than she recalled and covered with bougainvillea; massive
smouldering banks of bloom. Over them she could see the crests of trees,
their boughs heavy and motionless, and occasionally a watchtower, the
eternal mirador of Parián state, set among them, the houses invisible
here below the walls and from on top too, she’d once taken the trouble
to find out, as if shrunken down inside their patios, the miradors cut
off, floating above like lonely rooftrees of the soul. Nor could you
distinguish the houses much better through the wrought-iron lacework of
the high gates, vaguely reminiscent of New Orleans, locked in these
walls on which were furtively pencilled lovers’ trysts, and which so
often concealed less Mexico than a Spaniard’s dream of home. The gutter
on the right ran underground a while and another of those low shanties
built on the street frowned at her with its dark open sinister
bunkers—where Maria used to fetch their carbon. Then the water tumbled
out into the sunlight and on the other side, through a gap in the walls,
Popocatepetl emerged alone. Without her knowing it they had passed the
corner and the entrance to their house was in sight.

The street was now absolutely deserted and save for the gushing
murmurous gutters that now became like two fierce little streams racing
each other, silent: it reminded her, confusedly, of how in her heart’s
eye, before she’d met Louis, and when she’d half imagined the Consul
back in England, she’d tried to keep Quauhnahuac itself, as a sort of
safe footway where his phantom could endlessly pace, accompanied only by
her own consoling unwanted shadow, above the rising waters of possible
catastrophe.

Then since the other day Quauhnahuac had seemed, though emptied still,
different—purged, swept clean of the past, with Geoffrey here alone,
but now in the flesh, redeemable, wanting her help.

And here Geoffrey indeed was, not only not alone, not only not wanting
her help, but living in the midst of her blame, a blame by which, to all
appearances, he was curiously sustained—

Yvonne gripped her bag tightly, suddenly light-headed and barely
conscious of the landmarks the Consul, who seemed recovered in spirits,
was silently indicating with his stick: the country lane to the right,
and the little church that had been turned into a school with the
tombstones and the horizontal bar in the playground, the dark entrance
in the ditch—the high walls on both sides had temporarily disappeared
altogether—to the abandoned iron mine running under the garden.

                   _To and fro from school . . ._
                   _Popocatepetl_
                   _It was your shining day . . ._

The Consul hummed. Yvonne felt her heart melting. A sense of a shared, a
mountain peace seemed to fall between them; it was false, it was a lie,
but for a moment it was almost as though they were returning home from
marketing in days past. She took his arm, laughing, they fell into step.
And now here were the walls again, and their drive sloping down into the
street where no one had allayed the dust, already paddled by early bare
feet, and now here was their gate, off its hinges and lying just beyond
the entrance, as for that matter it always had lain, defiantly, half
hidden under the bank of bougainvillea.

“There now, Yvonne. Come along, darling . . . We’re almost home!”

“Yes.”

“Strange—” the Consul said.

A hideous pariah dog followed them in.




                                  III


THE tragedy, proclaimed, as they made their way up the crescent of the
drive, no less by the gaping potholes in it than by the tall exotic
plants, livid and crepuscular through his dark glasses, perishing on
every hand of unnecessary thirst, staggering, it almost appeared,
against one another, yet struggling like dying voluptuaries in a vision
to maintain some final attitude of potency, or of a collective desolate
fecundity, the Consul thought distantly, seemed to be reviewed and
interpreted by a person walking at his side suffering for him and
saying: “Regard: see how strange, how sad, familiar things may be. Touch
this tree, once your friend: alas, that that which you have known in the
blood should ever seem so strange! Look up at that niche in the wall
over there on the house where Christ is still, suffering, who would help
you if you asked him: you cannot ask him. Consider the agony of the
roses. See, on the lawn Concepta’s coffee beans, you used to say they
were Maria’s, drying in the sun. Do you know their sweet aroma any more?
Regard: the plantains with their queer familiar blooms, once emblematic
of life, now of an evil phallic death. You do not know how to love these
things any longer. All your love is the cantinas now: the feeble
survival of a love of life now turned to poison, which only is not
wholly poison, and poison has become your daily food, when in the
tavern—”

“Has Pedro gone too then?” Yvonne was holding his arm tightly but her
voice was almost natural, he felt.

“Yes, thank God!”

“How about the cats?”

“Perro!” the Consul, removing his glasses, said amiably to the pariah
dog that had appeared familiarly at heel. But the animal cowered back
down the drive. “Though the garden’s a rajah mess, I’m afraid. We’ve
been virtually without a gardener at all for months. Hugh pulled up a
few weeds. He cleaned out the swimming pool too . . . Hear it? It ought
to be full to-day.” The drive widened to a small arena then debouched
into a path cutting obliquely across the narrow sloping lawn, islanded
by rose beds, to the “front” door, actually at the back of the low white
house which was roofed with imbricated flower-pot-colored tiles
resembling bisected drainpipes. Glimpsed through the trees, with its
chimney on the far left, from which rose a thread of dark smoke, the
bungalow looked an instant like a pretty little ship lying at anchor.
“No. Skullduggery and suings for back wages have been my lot. And
leafcutter ants, several species. The house was broken into one night
when I was out. And flood: the drains of Quauhnahuac visited us and left
us with something that smelt like the Cosmic Egg till recently. Never
mind though, maybe you can—”

Yvonne disengaged her arm to lift aside a tentacle from a trumpet vine
growing across the path:

“Oh Geoffrey! Where’re my camellias?—”

“God knows.” The lawn was divided by a dry runnel parallel with the
house bridged by a spurious plank. Between floribundia and rose a spider
wove an intricate web. With pebbly cries a covey of tyrant flycatchers
swept over the house in quick dark flight. They crossed the plank and
they were on the “stoop.”

An old woman with a face of a highly intellectual black gnome, the
Consul always thought (mistress to some gnarled guardian of the mine
beneath the garden once, perhaps), and carrying the inevitable mop, the
trapeador or American husband, over her shoulder, shuffled out of the
“front” door, scraping her feet—the shuffling and the scraping however
seemingly unidentified, controlled by separate mechanisms. “Here’s
Concepta,” the Consul said. “Yvonne: Concepta. Concepta, Señora Firmin.”
The gnome smiled a child-like smile that momentarily transformed its
face into an innocent girl’s. Concepta wiped her hands on her apron: she
was shaking hands with Yvonne as the Consul hesitated, seeing now,
studying with sober interest (though at this point all at once he felt
more pleasantly “tight” than at any time since just before that blank
period last night) Yvonne’s luggage on the stoop before him, three bags
and a hatbox so bespangled with labels they might have burst forth into
a kind of bloom, to be saying too, here is your history: Hotel Hilo
Honolulu, Villa Carmona Granada, Hotel Theba Algeciras, Hotel Peninsula
Gibraltar, Hotel Nazareth Galilee, Hotel Manchester Paris, Cosmo Hotel
London, the S.S. _Ile de France_, Regis Hotel Canada, Hotel Mexico
D.F.—and now the new labels, the newest blossoms: Hotel Astor New York,
the Town House Los Angeles, S.S. _Pennsylvania_, Hotel Mirador Acapulco,
the Compañía Mexicana de Aviación. “El otro señor?” he was saying to
Conceptata who shook her head with delighted emphasis. “Hasn’t returned
yet. All right, Yvonne, I dare say you want your old room. Anyhow Hugh’s
in the back one with the machine.”

“The machine?”

“The mowing machine.”

“—por qué no, agua caliente,” Concepta’s soft musical humorous voice
rose and fell as she shuffled and scraped off with two of the bags.

“So there’s hot water for you, which is a miracle!”

On the other side of the house the view was suddenly spacious and windy
as the sea.

Beyond the barranca the plains rolled up to the very foot of the
volcanoes into a barrier of murk above which rose the pure cone of old
Popo, and spreading to the left of it like a University City in the snow
the jagged peaks of Ixtaccihuatl, and for a moment they stood on the
porch without speaking, not holding hands, but with their hands just
meeting, as though not quite sure they weren’t dreaming this, each of
them separately on their far bereaved cots, their hands but blown
fragments of their memories, half afraid to commingle, yet touching over
the howling sea at night.

Immediately below them the small chuckling swimming pool was still
filling from a leaky hose connected with a hydrant, though it was almost
full; they had painted it themselves once, blue on the sides and the
bottom; the paint had scarcely faded and mirroring the sky, aping it,
the water appeared a deep turquoise. Hugh had trimmed about the pool’s
edges but the garden sloped off beyond into an indescribable confusion
of briars from which the Consul averted his eyes: the pleasant
evanescent feeling of tightness was wearing off . . .

He glanced absently round the porch which also embraced briefly the left
side of the house, the house Yvonne hadn’t yet entered at all, and now
as in answer to his prayer Concepta was approaching them down its
length. Concepta’s gaze was fixed steadfastly on the tray she was
carrying and she glanced neither to right nor left, neither at the
drooping plants, dusty and gone to seed on the low parapet, nor at the
stained hammock, nor the bad melodrama of the broken chair, nor the
disembowelled daybed, nor the uncomfortable stuffed Quixotes tilting
their straw mounts on the house wall, shuffling slowly nearer them
through the dust and dead leaves she hadn’t yet swept from the ruddy
tiled floor.

“Concepta knows my habits, you see.” The Consul regarded the tray now on
which were two glasses, a bottle of Johnny Walker, half full, a soda
siphon, a jarro of melting ice and the sinister-looking bottle, also
half full, containing a dull red concoction like bad claret, or perhaps
cough mixture. “However this is the strychnine. Will you have a whiskey
and soda? . . . The ice seems to be for your benefit anyway. Not even a
straight wormwood?” The Consul shifted the tray from the parapet to a
wicker table Concepta had just brought out.

“Good heavens, not for me, thank you.”

“—A straight whiskey then. Go ahead. What have you got to lose?”

“. . . Let me have some breakfast first!”

“—She might have said yes for once,” a voice said in the Consul’s ear
at this moment with incredible rapidity, “for now of course poor old
chap you want horribly to get drunk all over again don’t you the whole
trouble being as we see it that Yvonne’s long-dreamed-of coming alas but
put away the anguish my boy there’s nothing in it,” the voice gabbled
on, “has in itself created the most important situation in your life
save one namely the far more important situation it in turn creates of
your having to have five hundred drinks in order to deal with it,” the
voice he recognized of a pleasant and impertinent familiar, perhaps
horned, prodigal of disguise, a specialist in casuistry, and who added
severely, “but are you the man to weaken and have a drink at this
critical hour Geoffrey Firmin you are not you will fight it have already
fought down this temptation have you not you have not then I must remind
you did you not last night refuse drink after drink and finally after a
nice little sleep even sober up altogether you didn’t you did you didn’t
you did we know afterwards you did you were only drinking enough to
correct your tremor a masterly self-control she does not and cannot
appreciate!”

“I don’t feel you believe in the strychnine somehow,” the Consul said,
with quiet triumph (there was an immense comfort however in the mere
presence of the whiskey bottle) pouring himself from the sinister bottle
a half-tumblerful of his mixture. I have resisted temptation for two and
a half minutes at least: my redemption is sure. “Neither do I believe in
the strychnine, you’ll make me cry again, you bloody fool Geoffrey
Firmin, I’ll kick your face in, O idiot!” That was yet another familiar
and the Consul raised his glass in token of recognition and drank half
its contents thoughtfully. The strychnine—he had ironically put some
ice in it—tasted sweet, rather like cassis; it provided perhaps a
species of subliminal stimulus, faintly perceived: the Consul, who was
still standing, was aware too of a faint feeble wooling of his pain,
contemptible . . .

“But can’t you see you cabrón that she is thinking that the first thing
you think of after she has arrived home like this is a drink even if it
is only a drink of strychnine the intrusive necessity for which and
juxtaposition cancels its innocence so you see you might as well in the
face of such hostility might you not start now on the whiskey instead of
later not on the tequila where it is by the way all right all right we
know where it is that would be the beginning of the end nor on the
mescal which would be the end though a damned good end perhaps but
whiskey the fine old healthful throat-smarting fire of your wife’s
ancestors nació 1820 y siguiendo tan campante and afterwards you might
perhaps have some beer good for you too and full of vitamins for your
brother will be here and it is an occasion and this is perhaps the whole
point for celebration of course it is and while drinking the whiskey and
later the beer you could nevertheless still be tapering off poco a poco
as you must but everyone knows it’s dangerous to attempt it too quickly
still keeping up Hugh’s good work of straightening you out of course you
would!” It was his first familiar again and the Consul sighing put the
tumbler down on the tray with a defiantly steady hand.

“What was that you said?” he asked Yvonne.

“I said three times,” Yvonne was laughing, “for Pete’s sake have a
decent drink. You don’t have to drink that stuff to impress me . . .
I’ll just sit here and cheer.”

“_What?_” She was sitting on the parapet gazing over the valley with
every semblance of interested enjoyment. It was dead calm in the garden
itself. But the wind must have suddenly changed; Ixta had vanished while
Popocatepetl was almost wholly obscured by black horizontal columns of
cloud, like smoke drawn across the mountain by several trains running
parallel. “Will you say that again?” The Consul took her hand.

They were embracing, or so it all but seemed, passionately: somewhere,
out of the heavens, a swan, transfixed, plummeted to earth. Outside the
cantina El Puerto del Sol in Independencia the doomed men would be
already crowding into the warmth of the sun, waiting for the shutters to
roll up with a crash of trumpets . . .

“No, I’ll stick to the old medicine, thanks.” The Consul had almost
fallen backwards onto his broken green rocking chair. He sat soberly
facing Yvonne. This was the moment then, yearned for under beds,
sleeping in the corners of bars, at the edge of dark woods, lanes,
bazaars, prisons, the moment when—but the moment, stillborn, was gone:
and behind him the _ursa horribilis_ of the night had moved nearer. What
had he done? Slept somewhere, that much was certain. _Tak: tok: help:
help:_ the swimming pool ticked like a clock. He had slept: what else?
His hand searching in his dress trousers pockets felt the hard edge of a
clue. The card he brought to light said:

                      _Arturo Díaz Vigil_
                  _Médico Cirujano y Partero_
                    _Enfermedades de Niños_
                    _Indisposiciones Nerviosas_
                  _Consultas de 12 a 2 y de 4 a 7_
                    _Av. Revolución Número 8._

“—Have you really come back? Or have you just come to see me?” the
Consul was asking Yvonne gently as he replaced the card.

“Here I am, aren’t I?” Yvonne said merrily, even with a slight note of
challenge.

“Strange,” the Consul commented, half trying to rise for the drink
Yvonne had ratified in spite of himself and the quick voice that
protested: “You bloody fool Geoffrey Firmin, I’ll kick your face in if
you do, if you have a drink I’ll cry, O idiot!” “Yet it’s awfully
courageous of you. What if—I’m in a frightful jolly mess, you know.”

“But you look a_ma_zingly well I thought. You’ve no _idea_ how well you
look.” (The Consul had absurdly flexed his biceps, feeling them: “Still
strong as a horse, so to speak, strong as a horse!”) “How do I look?”
She seemed to have said. Yvonne averted her face a little, keeping it in
profile.

“Didn’t I say?” The Consul watched her. “Beautiful . . . Brown.” Had he
said that? “Brown as a berry. You’ve been swimming,” he added. “You look
as though you’ve had plenty of sun . . . There’s been plenty of sun here
too of course,” he went on. “As usual . . . Too much of it. In spite of
the rain . . . Do you know, I don’t like it.”

“Oh yes you do, really,” she had apparently replied. “We could get out
in the sun, you know.”

“Well—”

The Consul sat on the broken green rocker facing Yvonne. Perhaps it was
just the soul, he thought, slowly emerging out of the strychnine into a
form of detachment, to dispute with Lucretius, that grew older, while
the body could renew itself many times unless it had acquired an
unalterable habit of age. And perhaps the soul thrived on its
sufferings, and upon the sufferings he had inflicted on his wife her
soul had not only thrived but flourished. Ah, and not only upon the
sufferings he had inflicted. What of those for which the adulterous
ghost named Cliff he imagined always as just a morning coat and a pair
of striped pyjamas open at the front, had been responsible? And the
child, strangely named Geoffrey too, she had had by the ghost, two years
before her first ticket to Reno, and which would now be six, had it not
died at the age of as many months as many years ago, of meningitis, in
1932, three years before they themselves had met, and been married in
Granada, in Spain? There Yvonne was at all events, bronzed and youthful
and ageless: she had been at fifteen, she’d told him (that is, about the
time she must have been acting in those Western pictures M. Laruelle,
who had not seen them, adroitly assured one had influenced Eisenstein or
somebody), a girl of whom people said, “She is not pretty but she is
going to be beautiful”: at twenty they still said so, and at
twenty-seven when she’d married him it was still true, according to the
category through which one perceived such things of course: it was
equally true of her now, at thirty, that she gave the impression of
someone who is still going to be, perhaps just about to be, “beautiful”:
the same tilted nose, the small ears, the warm brown eyes, clouded now
and hurt-looking, the same wide, full-lipped mouth, warm too and
generous, the slightly weak chin. Yvonne’s was the same fresh bright
face that could collapse, as Hugh would say, like a heap of ashes, and
be grey. Yet she was changed. Ah yes indeed! Much as the demoted
skipper’s lost command, seen through the barroom window lying out in
harbour, is changed. She was no longer his: someone had doubtless
approved her smart slate blue travelling suit: it had not been he.

Suddenly with a quietly impatient gesture Yvonne pulled her hat off, and
shaking her brown sunbleached hair rose from the parapet. She settled
herself on the daybed, crossing her unusually beautiful and aristocratic
long legs. The daybed emitted a rending guitar crash of chords. The
Consul found his dark glasses and put them on almost playfully. But it
had struck him with remote anguish that Yvonne was still waiting for the
courage to enter the house. He said consularly in a deep false voice:

“Hugh ought to be here before very long if he comes back by the first
bus.”

“What time is the first bus?”

“Half past ten, eleven.” What did it matter? Chimes sounded from the
city. Unless of course it seemed utterly impossible, one dreaded the
hour of anyone’s arrival unless they were bringing liquor. What if there
had been no liquor in the house, only the strychnine? Could he have
endured it? He would be even now stumbling through the dusty streets in
the growing heat of the day after a bottle; or have dispatched Concepta.
In some tiny bar at a dusty alley corner, his mission forgotten, he
would drink all morning celebrating Yvonne’s coming while she slept.
Perhaps he would pretend to be an Icelander or a visitor from the Andes
or Argentina. Far more than the hour of Hugh’s arrival was to be dreaded
the issue that was already bounding after him at the gait of Goethe’s
famous church bell in pursuit of the child truant from church. Yvonne
twisted her wedding ring round her finger, once. Did she still wear it
for love or for one of two kinds of convenience, or both? Or, poor girl,
was it merely for his, for _their_ benefit? The swimming pool ticked on.
_Might a soul bathe there and be clean or slake its drought?_

“It’s still only eight-thirty.” The Consul took off his glasses again.

“Your eyes, you poor darling—they’ve got such a glare,” Yvonne burst
out with: and the church bell was nearer; now it had loped, clanging,
over a stile and the child had stumbled.

“A touch of the goujeers . . . Just a touch.” Die glocke glocke tönt
nicht mehr . . . The Consul traced a pattern on one of the porch tiles
with his dress shoes in which his sockless feet (sockless not because as
Sr. Bustamente the manager of the local cinema would have it, he’d drunk
himself into a position where he could afford no socks, but because his
whole frame was so neuritic with alcohol he found it impossible to put
them on) felt swollen and sore. They would not have, but for the
strychnine, damn the stuff, and this complete cold ugly sobriety it had
let him down into! Yvonne was sitting on the parapet again leaning
against a pillar. She bit her lips, intent on the garden:

“Geoffrey, this place is a wreck!”

“Mariana and the moated grange isn’t in it.” The Consul was winding his
wrist watch. “. . . But look here, suppose for the sake of argument you
abandon a besieged town to the enemy and then somehow or other not very
long afterwards you go back to it—there’s something about my analogy I
don’t like, but never mind, suppose you do it—then you can’t very well
expect to invite your soul into quite the same green graces, with quite
the same dear old welcome here and there, can you, eh?”

“But I didn’t abandon—”

“Even, I wouldn’t say, if that town seems to be going about its business
again, though in a somewhat stricken fashion, I admit, and its trams
running more or less on schedule.” The Consul strapped his watch firmly
on his wrist. “Eh?”

“—Look at the red bird on the tree-twigs, Geoffrey! I never saw a
cardinal as big as that before.”

“No.” The Consul, all unobserved, secured the whiskey bottle, uncorked
it, smelt its contents and returned it to the tray gravely, pursing his
lips: “You wouldn’t have. Because it isn’t a cardinal.”

“Of course that’s a cardinal. Look at its red breast. It’s like a bit of
flame!” Yvonne, it was clear to him, dreaded the approaching scene as
much as he, and now felt under some compulsion to go on talking about
anything until the perfect inappropriate moment arrived, that moment too
when, unseen by her, the awful bell would actually touch the doomed
child with giant protruding tongue and hellish Wesleyan breath. “There,
on the hibiscus!”

The Consul closed one eye. “He’s a coppery-tailed trogon I believe. And
he has no red breast. He’s a solitary fellow who probably lives way off
in the Canyon of the Wolves over there, away off from those other
fellows with ideas, so that he can have peace to meditate about not
being a cardinal.”

“I’m sure it’s a cardinal and lives right here in this garden!”

“Have it your own way. _Trogon ambiguus ambiguus_ is the exact name, I
think, the ambiguous bird! Two ambiguities ought to make an affirmative
and this is it, the coppery-tailed trogon, not the cardinal.” The Consul
reached out toward the tray for his empty strychnine glass, but
forgetting midway what he proposed to put in it, or whether it wasn’t
one of the bottles he wanted first, if only to smell, and not the glass,
he dropped his hand and leaned still further forward, turning the
movement into one of concern for the volcanoes. He said:

“Old Popeye ought to be coming out again pretty soon.”

“He seems to be completely obliterated in spinach at the moment—”
Yvonne’s voice quivered.

The Consul struck a match against their old jest for the cigarette he
had somehow failed to place between his lips: after a little, finding
himself with a dead match, he put it in his pocket.

For a time they confronted each other like two mute unspeaking forts.

The water still trickling into the pool—God, how deadeningly
slowly—filled the silence between them . . . There was something else;
the Consul imagined he still heard the music of the ball, which must
have long since ceased, so that this silence was pervaded as with a
stale thudding of drums. Pariah: that meant drums too. Parián. It was
doubtless the almost tactile absence of the music however, that made it
so peculiar the trees should be apparently shaking to it, an illusion
investing not only the garden but the plains beyond, the whole scene
before his eyes, with horror, the horror of an intolerable unreality.
This must be not unlike, he told himself, what some insane person
suffers at those moments when, sitting benignly in the asylum grounds,
madness suddenly ceases to be a refuge and becomes incarnate in the
shattering sky and all his surroundings in the presence of which reason,
already struck dumb, can only bow the head. Does the madman find solace
at such moments, as his thoughts like cannon-balls crash through his
brain, in the exquisite beauty of the madhouse garden or of the
neighbouring hills beyond the terrible chimney? Hardly, the Consul felt.
As for this particular beauty he knew it dead as his marriage and as
wilfully slaughtered. The sun shining brilliantly now on all the world
before him, its rays picking out the timberline of Popocatepetl as its
summit like a gigantic surfacing whale shouldered out of the clouds
again, all this could not lift his spirit. The sunlight could not share
his burden of conscience, of sourceless sorrow. It did not know him.
Down to his left beyond the plantains the gardener at the Argentinian
ambassador’s week-end residence was slashing his way through some tall
grasses, clearing the ground for a badminton court, yet something about
this innocent enough occupation contained a horrible threat against him.
The broad leaves of the plantains themselves drooping gently seemed
menacingly savage as the stretched wings of pelicans, shaking before
they fold. The movements of some more little red birds in the garden,
like animated rosebuds, appeared unbearably jittery and thievish. It was
as though the creatures were attached by sensitive wires to his nerves.
When the telephone rang his heart almost stopped beating.

As a matter of fact the telephone was ringing clearly and the Consul
left the porch for the dining room where, afraid of the furious thing,
he started to speak into the receiver, then, sweating, into the
mouthpiece, talking rapidly—for it was a trunk call—not knowing what
he was saying, hearing Tom’s muted voice quite plainly but turning his
questions into his own answers, apprehensive lest at any moment boiling
oil pour into his eardrums or his mouth: “All right. Good-bye . . . Oh,
say, Tom, what was the origin of that silver rumour that appeared in the
papers yesterday denied by Washington? I wonder where it came from . . .
What started it. Yes. All right. Good-bye. Yes, I have, terrible. Oh
they did! Too bad. But after all they own it. Or don’t they? Good-bye.
They probably will. Yes that’s all right, that’s all right. Good-bye;
good-bye!” . . . Christ. What does he want to ring me up at this hour of
the morning for. What time is it in America. Erikson 43.

Christ . . . He hung up the receiver the wrong way and returned to the
porch: no Yvonne; after a moment he heard her in the bathroom . . .

The Consul was guiltily climbing the Calle Nicaragua.

It was as if he were toiling up some endless staircase between houses.
Or perhaps even old Popeye itself. Never had it seemed such a long way
to the top of this hill. The road with its tossing broken stones
stretched on forever into the distance like a life of agony. He thought:
900 pesos=100 bottles of whiskey=900 ditto tequila. Argal: one should
drink neither tequila nor whiskey but mescal. It was hot as a furnace
too out on the street and the Consul sweated profusely. Away! Away! He
was not going very far away, nor to the top of the hill. There was a
lane branching to the left before you reached Jacques’ house, leafy, no
more than a carttrack at first, then a switchback, and somewhere along
that lane to the right, not five minutes’ walk, at a dusty corner,
waited a little cool nameless cantina with horses probably tethered
outside, and a huge white tomcat sleeping below the counter of whom a
whiskerando would say: “He ah work all night mistair and sleep all day!”
And this cantina would be open.

This was where he was going (the lane was plainly in sight now, a dog
guarding it) to have in peace a couple of necessary drinks unspecified
in his mind, and be back again before Yvonne had finished her bath. It
was just possible too of course that he might meet—

But suddenly the Calle Nicaragua rose up to meet him.

The Consul lay face downward on the deserted street.

—Hugh, is that you old chap lending the old boy a hand? Thank you so
much. For it is perhaps indeed your turn these days to lend a hand. Not
that I haven’t always been delighted to help you! I was even delighted
in Paris that time you arrived from Aden in a fix over your carte
d’identité and the passport you so often seem to prefer travelling
without and whose number I remember to this day is 21312. It perhaps
gave me all the more pleasure in that it served a while to take my mind
from my own tangled affairs and moreover proved to my satisfaction,
though some of my colleagues were even then beginning to doubt it, that
I was still not so divorced from life as to be incapable of discharging
such duties with dispatch. Why do I say this?—Is it in part that you
should see that I also recognize how close Yvonne and I had already been
brought to disaster before your meeting! Are you listening, Hugh—do I
make myself clear? Clear that I forgive you, as somehow I have never
wholly been able to forgive Yvonne, and that I can still love you as a
brother and respect you as a man. Clear, that I would help you,
ungrudgingly, again. In fact ever since Father went up into the White
Alps alone and failed to return, though they happened to be the
Himalayas, and more often than I care to think these volcanoes remind me
of them, just as this valley does of the Valley of the Indus, and as
those old turbaned trees in Taxco do of Srinigar, and just as
Xochimilco—are you listening Hugh?—of all places when I first came
here, reminded me of those houseboats on the Shalimar you cannot
remember, and your mother, my stepmother died, all those dreadful things
seeming to happen at once as though the in-laws of catastrophe had
suddenly arrived from nowhere, or, perhaps, Damchok, and moved in on us
bag and baggage—there has been all too little opportunity to act, so to
say, as a brother to you. Mind you I have perhaps acted as a father: but
you were only an infant then, and seasick, upon the P and O, the old
erratic _Cocanada_. But after that and once back in England there were
too many guardians, too many surrogates in Harrogate, too many
establishments and schools, not to mention the war, the struggle to win
which, for as you say rightly it is not yet over, I continue in a bottle
and you with the ideas I hope may prove less calamitous to you than did
our father’s to him, or for that matter mine to myself. However all this
may be—still there, Hugh, lending a hand?—I ought to point out in no
uncertain terms that I never dreamed for a moment such a thing as did
happen would or could happen. That I had forfeited Yvonne’s trust did
not necessarily mean she had forfeited mine, of which one had a rather
different conception. And that I trusted you goes without saying. Far
less could I have dreamed you would attempt morally to justify yourself
on the grounds that I was absorbed in a debauch: there are certain
reasons too, to be revealed only at the day of reckoning, why you should
not have stood in judgement upon me. Yet I am afraid—are you listening,
Hugh?—that long before that day what you did impulsively and have tried
to forget in the cruel abstraction of youth will begin to strike you in
a new and darker light. I am sadly afraid that you may indeed, precisely
because you are a good and simple person at bottom and genuinely respect
more than most the principles and decencies that might have prevented
it, fall heir, as you grow older and your conscience less robust, to a
suffering on account of it more abominable than any you have caused me.
How may I help you? How ward it off? How shall the murdered man convince
his assassin he will not haunt him. Ah, the past is filled up quicker
than we know and God has little patience with remorse! Yet does this
help, what I am trying to tell you, that _I_ realise to what degree I
brought all this upon myself? Help, that I am admitting moreover that to
have cast Yvonne upon you in that fashion was a feckless action, almost,
I was going to say, a clownish one, inviting in return the inevitable
bladder on the brain, the mouthful and heartful of sawdust. I sincerely
hope so . . . Meantime, however, old fellow, my mind, staggering under
the influence of the last half-hour’s strychnine, of the several
therapeutic drinks before that, of the numerous distinctly untherapeutic
drinks with Dr. Vigil before that, you must meet Dr. Vigil, I say
nothing of his friend Jacques Laruelle to whom for various reasons I
have hitherto avoided introducing you—please remind me to get back my
Elizabethan plays from him—of the two days’ and one night’s continuous
drinking before that, of the seven hundred and seventy-seven and a
half—but why go on? My mind, I repeat, must somehow, drugged though it
is, like Don Quixote avoiding a town invested with his abhorrence
because of his excesses there, take a clear cut around—did I say Dr.
Vigil?—

“I say I say what’s the matter there?” The English “King’s Parade”
voice, scarcely above him, called out from behind the steering wheel,
the Consul saw now, of an extremely long low car drawn up beside him,
murmurous: an M.G. Magna, or some such.

“Nothing.” The Consul sprang to his feet instantly sober as a judge.
“Absolutely all right.”

“Can’t be all right, you were lying right down in the road there, what?”
The English face, now turned up toward him, was rubicund, merry, kindly,
but worried, above the English striped tie, mnemonic of a fountain in a
great court.

The Consul brushed the dust from his clothes; he sought for wounds in
vain; there was not a scratch. He saw the fountain distinctly. _Might a
soul bathe there and be clean or slake its drought?_

“All right, apparently,” he said, “thanks very much.”

“But damn it all I say you were lying right down in the road there,
might have run over you, there must be something wrong, what? No?” The
Englishman switched his engine off. “I say, haven’t I seen you before or
something.”

“—”

“—”

“Trinity.” The Consul found his own voice becoming involuntarily a
little more “English.” “Unless—”

“Caius.”

“But you’re wearing a Trinity tie—” the Consul remarked with a polite
note of triumph.

“Trinity? . . . Yes. It’s my cousin’s, as a matter of fact.” The
Englishman peered down his chin at the tie, his red merry face become a
shade redder. “We’re going to Guatemala . . . Wonderful country this.
Pity about all this oil business, isn’t it? Bad show.—Are you sure
there’re no bones broken or anything, old man?”

“No. There are no bones broken,” the Consul said. But he was trembling.

The Englishman leaned forward fumbling as for the engine switch again.
“Sure you’re all right? We’re staying at the Bella Vista Hotel, not
leaving until this afternoon. I could take you along there for a little
shuteye . . . Deuced nice pub I must say but deuced awful row going on
all night. I suppose you were at the ball—is that it? Going the wrong
way though, aren’t you? I always keep a bottle of something in the car
for an emergency . . . No. Not Scotch. Irish. Burke’s Irish. Have a nip?
But perhaps you’d—”

“Ah . . .” The Consul was taking a long draught. “Thanks a million.”

“Go ahead . . . Go ahead . . .”

“Thanks.” The Consul handed back the bottle. “A million.”

“Well, cheerio.” The Englishman restarted his engine. “Cheerio man.
Don’t go lying down in roads. Bless my soul you’ll get run over or run
in or something, damn it all. Dreadful road too. Splendid weather, isn’t
it?” The Englishman drove away up the hill, waving his hand.

“If you’re ever in any kind of a jam yourself,” the Consul cried after
him recklessly, “I’m—wait, here’s my card—”

“Bungho!”

—It was not Dr. Vigil’s card the Consul still held in his hand: but it
was certainly not his own. _Compliments of the Venezuelan Government._
What was this? _The Venezuelan Government will appreciate_ . . .
Wherever could this have sprung from? _The Venezuelan Government will
appreciate an acknowledgement to the Ministerio de Relaciones
Exteriores. Caracas, Venezuela._ Well, now, Caracas—well, why not?

Erect as Jim Taskerson, he thought, married now too, poor
devil—restored, the Consul glided down the Calle Nicaragua.

Within the house there was the sound of bathwater running out: he made a
lightning toilet. Intercepting Concepta (though not before he had added
a tactful strychnine to her burden) with the breakfast tray, the Consul,
innocently as a man who has committed a murder while dummy at bridge,
entered Yvonne’s room. It was bright and tidy. A gaily colored
Oaxaqueñan serape covered the low bed where Yvonne lay half asleep with
her head resting on one hand.

“How!”

“How!”

A magazine she’d been reading dropped to the floor. The Consul, inclined
slightly forward over the orange juice and ranchero eggs, advanced
boldly through a diversity of powerless emotions.

“Are you comfortable there?”

“Fine, thanks.” Yvonne accepted the tray smiling. The magazine was the
amateur astronomy one she subscribed to and from the cover the huge
domes of an observatory, haloed in gold and standing out in black
silhouette like roman helmets, regarded the Consul waggishly. “_The
Mayas_,” he read aloud, “_were far advanced in observational astronomy.
But they did not suspect a Copernican system._” He threw the magazine
back on the bed and sat easily in his chair, crossing his legs, the tips
of his fingers meeting in a strange calm, his strychnine on the floor
beside him. “Why should they? . . . What I like though are the ‘vague’
years of the old Mayans. And their ‘pseudo years,’ mustn’t overlook
them! And their delicious names for the months. Pop. Uo. Zip. Zotz.
Tzec. Xul. Yaxkin.”

“Mac,” Yvonne was laughing. “Isn’t there one called Mac?”

“There’s Yax and Zac. And Uayeb: I like that one most of all, the month
that only lasts five days.”

“In receipt of yours dated Zip the first!—”

“But where does it all get you in the end?” The Consul sipped his
strychnine that had yet to prove its adequacy as a chaser to the Burke’s
Irish (now perhaps in the garage at the Bella Vista). “The knowledge, I
mean. One of the first penances I ever imposed on myself was to learn
the philosophical section of _War and Peace_ by heart. That was of
course before I could dodge about in the rigging of the Cabbala like a
St. Jago’s monkey. But then the other day I suddenly realised that the
only thing I remembered about the whole book was that Napoleon’s leg
twitched—”

“Aren’t you going to eat anything yourself? You must be starved.”

“I partook.”

Yvonne who was herself breakfasting heartily asked:

“How’s the market?”

“Tom’s a bit fed up because they’ve confiscated some property of his in
Tlaxcala, or Puebla, he thought he’d got away with. They haven’t my
number yet, I’m not sure where I really do stand in that regard, now
I’ve resigned the service—”

“So you—”

“By the by I must apologise for still being in these duds—dusty
too—bad show, I might have put on a blazer at least for your benefit!”
The Consul smiled inwardly at his accent, now become for undivulgeable
reasons almost uncontrolledly “English.”

“So you really have resigned!”

“Oh absolutely! I’m thinking of becoming a Mexican subject, of going to
live among the Indians, like William Blackstone. But for one’s habit of
making money, don’t you know, all very mysterious to you, I suppose,
outside looking in—” The Consul stared round mildly at the pictures on
the wall, mostly water-colours by his mother depicting scenes in
Kashmir: a small grey stone enclosure encompassing several birch trees
and a taller poplar was Lalla Rookh’s tomb, a picture of wild torrential
scenery, vaguely Scottish, the gorge, the ravine at Gugganvir; the
Shalimar looked more like the Cam than ever: a distant view of Nanga
Parbat from Sind valley could have been painted on the porch here, Nanga
Parbat might well have passed for old Popo . . . “—outside looking in,”
he repeated, “the result of so much worry, speculation, foresight,
alimony, seigniorage—”

“But—” Yvonne had laid aside her breakfast tray and taken a cigarette
from her own case beside the bed and lit it before the Consul could help
her.

“One might have already done so!”

Yvonne lay back in bed smoking . . . In the end the Consul scarcely
heard what she was saying—calmly, sensibly, courageously—for his
awareness of an extraordinary thing that was happening in his mind. He
saw in a flash, as if these were ships on the horizon, under a black
lateral abstract sky, the occasion for desperate celebration (it didn’t
matter he might be the only one to celebrate it) receding, while at the
same time, coming closer, what could only be, what was—Good God!—his
salvation . . .

“_Now?_” he found he had said gently. “But we can’t very well go away
_now_ can we, what with Hugh and you and me and one thing and another,
don’t you think? It’s a little unfeasible, isn’t it?” (For his salvation
might not have seemed so large with menace had not the Burke’s Irish
whiskey chosen suddenly to tighten, if almost imperceptibly, a screw. It
was the soaring of this moment, conceived of as continuous, that felt
itself threatened.) “Isn’t it?” he repeated.

“I’m sure Hugh’d understand—”

“But that’s not quite the point!”

“Geoffrey, this house has become somehow evil—”

“—I mean it’s rather a dirty trick—”

Oh Jesus . . . The Consul slowly assumed an expression intended to be
slightly bantering and at the same time assured, indicative of a final
consular sanity. For this was it. Goethe’s church bell was looking him
straight between the eyes; fortunately, he was prepared for it. “I
remember a fellow I helped out in New York once,” he was saying with
apparent irrelevance, “in some way, an out of work actor he was. ‘Why
Mr. Firmin,’ he said, ‘it isn’t naturel here.’ That’s exactly how he
pronounced it: naturel. ‘Man wasn’t intended for it,’ he complained.
‘All the streets are the same as this Tenth or Eleventh Street in
Philadelphia too . . .’” The Consul could feel his English accent
leaving him and that of a Bleecker Street mummer taking its place. “‘But
in Newcastle, Delaware, now that’s another thing again! Old cobbled
roads . . . And Charleston: old Southern stuff. . . But oh my God this
city—the noise! the chaos! If I could only get out! If I only knew
where you could get to!’” The Consul concluded with passion, with
anguish, his voice quivering—though as it happened he had never met any
such person, and the whole story had been told him by Tom, he shook
violently with the emotion of the poor actor.

“What’s the use of escaping,” he drew the moral with complete
seriousness, “from ourselves?”

Yvonne had sunk back in bed patiently. But now she stretched forward and
stabbed out her cigarette in the tray of a tall grey tin-work ashstand
shaped like an abstract representation of a swan. The swan’s neck had
become slightly unravelled but it bowed gracefully, tremulously at her
touch as she answered:

“All right, Geoffrey: suppose we forget it until you’re feeling better:
we can cope with it in a day or two, when you’re sober.”

“But good lord!”

The Consul sat perfectly still staring at the floor while the enormity
of the insult passed into his soul. As if, as if, as if, he were not
sober now! Yet there was some elusive subtlety in the impeachment that
still escaped him. For he was not sober. No, he was not, not at this
very moment he wasn’t! But what had that to do with a minute before, or
half an hour ago? And what right had Yvonne to assume it, assume either
that he was not sober now, or that, far worse, in a day or two he
_would_ be sober? And even if he were not sober now, by what fabulous
stages, comparable indeed only to the paths and spheres of the Holy
Cabbala itself, had he reached _this_ stage again, touched briefly once
before this morning, this stage at which alone he could, as she put it,
“cope,” this precarious precious stage, so arduous to maintain, of being
drunk in which alone he was sober! What right had she, when he had sat
suffering the tortures of the damned and the madhouse on her behalf for
fully twenty-five minutes on end without having a decent drink, even to
hint that he was anything but, to her eyes, sober? Ah, a woman could not
know the perils, the complications, yes, the _importance_ of a
drunkard’s life! From what conceivable standpoint of rectitude did she
imagine she could judge what was anterior to her arrival? And she knew
nothing whatever of what all too recently he had gone through, his fall
in the Calle Nicaragua, his aplomb, coolness, even bravery there—the
Burke’s Irish whiskey! What a world. And the trouble was she had now
spoiled the moment. Because the Consul now felt that he might have been
capable, remembering Yvonne’s “perhaps I’ll have one after breakfast,”
and all that implied, of saying, in a minute (but for her remark and
yes, in spite of any salvation), “Yes, by all means you are right: let
us go!” But who could agree with someone who was so certain you were
going to be sober the day after to-morrow? It wasn’t as though either,
upon the most superficial plane, it were not well-known that no one
could tell when he was drunk. Just like the Taskersons: God bless them.
He was not the person to be seen reeling about in the street. True he
might lie down in the street, if need be, like a gentleman; but he would
not reel. Ah, what a world it was, that trampled down the truth and
drunkards alike! A world full of bloodthirsty people, no less!
Bloodthirsty, did I hear you say bloodthirsty, Commander Firmin?

“But my lord, Yvonne, surely you know by this time I can’t get drunk
however much I drink,” he said almost tragically, taking an abrupt
swallow of strychnine. “Why, do you think I _like_ swilling down this
awful _nux vómica_ or bella donna or whatever it is of Hugh’s?” The
Consul got up with his empty glass and began to walk around the room. He
was not so much aware of having done by default anything fatal (it
wasn’t as if, for instance, he’d thrown his whole life away) as
something merely foolish, and at the same time, as it were, sad. Yet
there seemed a call for some amends. He either thought or said:

“Well, to-morrow perhaps I’ll drink beer only. There’s nothing like beer
to straighten you out, and a little more strychnine, and then the next
day just beer—I’m sure no one will object if I drink beer. This Mexican
stuff is particularly full of vitamins, I gather . . . For I can see it
really is going to be somewhat of an occasion, this reunion of us all,
and then perhaps when my nerves are back to normal again, I’ll go off it
completely. And then, who knows,” he brought up by the door, “I might
get down to work again and finish my book!”

But the door was still a door and it was shut: and now ajar. Through it,
on the porch he saw the whiskey bottle, slightly smaller and emptier of
hope than the Burke’s Irish, standing forlornly. Yvonne had not opposed
a snifter: he had been unjust to her. Yet was that any reason why he
should be unjust also to the bottle? Nothing in the world was more
terrible than an empty bottle! Unless it was an empty glass. But he
could wait: yes, sometimes he knew when to leave it alone. He wandered
back to the bed thinking or saying:

“Yes: I can see the reviews now. Mr. Firmin’s sensational new data on
Atlantis! The most extraordinary thing of its kind since Donnelly!
Interrupted by his untimely death . . . Marvellous. And the chapters on
the alchemists! Which beat the Bishop of Tasmania to a frazzle. Only
that’s not quite the way they’ll put it. Pretty good, eh? I might even
work in something about Coxcox and Noah. I’ve got a publisher interested
too; in Chicago—interested but not concerned, if you understand me, for
it’s really a mistake to imagine such a book could ever become popular.
But it’s amazing when you come to think of it how the human spirit seems
to blossom in the shadow of the abattoir! How—to say nothing of all the
poetry—not far enough below the stockyards to escape altogether the
reek of the porterhouse of to-morrow, people can be living in cellars
the life of the old alchemists of Prague! Yes: living among the
cohabations of Faust himself, among the litharge and agate and hyacinth
and pearls. A life which is amorphous, plastic and crystalline. What am
I talking about? Copula Maritalis? Or from alcohol to alkahest. Can you
tell me? . . . Or perhaps I might get myself another job, first of
course being sure to insert an advertisement in the _Universal_: will
accompany corpse to any place in the east!”

Yvonne was sitting up half reading her magazine, her nightgown slightly
pulled aside showing where her warm tan faded into the white skin of her
breast, her arms outside the covers and one hand turned downward from
the wrist hanging over the edge of the bed listlessly: as he approached
she turned this hand palm upward in an involuntary movement, of
irritation perhaps, but it was like an unconscious gesture of appeal: it
was more: it seemed to epitomize, suddenly, all the old supplication,
the whole queer secret dumb-show of incommunicable tendernesses and
loyalties and eternal hopes of their marriage. The Consul felt his
tearducts quicken. But he had also felt a sudden peculiar sense of
embarrassment, a sense, almost, of indecency that he, a stranger, should
be in her room. This room! He went to the door and looked out. The
whiskey bottle was still there.

But he made no motion towards it, none at all, save to put on his dark
glasses. He was conscious of new aches here and there, of, for the first
time, the impact of the Calle Nicaragua. Vague images of grief and
tragedy flickered in his mind. Somewhere a butterfly was flying out to
sea: lost. La Fontaine’s duck had loved the white hen yet after escaping
together from the dreadful farmyard through the forest to the lake it
was the duck that swam: the hen, following, drowned. In November, 1895,
in convict dress, from two o’clock in the afternoon till half past,
handcuffed, recognized, Oscar Wilde stood on the center platform at
Clapham Junction . . .

When the Consul returned to the bed and sat down on it Yvonne’s arms
were under the covers while her face was turned to the wall. After a
while he said with emotion, his voice grown hoarse again:

“Do you remember how the night before you left we actually made a date
like a couple of strangers to meet for dinner in Mexico City?”

Yvonne gazed at the wall:

“You didn’t keep it.”

“That was because I couldn’t remember the name of the restaurant at the
last moment. All I knew was that it was in the Via Dolorosa somewhere.
It was the one we’d discovered together the last time we were in the
City. I went into all the restaurants in the Via Dolorosa looking for
you and not finding you I had a drink in each one.”

“Poor Geoffrey.”

“I must have phoned back the Hotel Canada from each restaurant. From the
cantina of each restaurant. God knows how many times, for I thought you
might have returned there. And each time they said the same thing, that
you’d left to meet me, but they didn’t know where. And finally they
became pretty damned annoyed. I can’t imagine why we stayed at the
Canada instead of the Regis:—do you remember how they kept mistaking me
there, with my beard, for that wrestler? . . . Anyhow, there I was
wandering around from place to place, wrestling, and thinking all the
while I could prevent you from going the next morning, if I could only
find you!”

“Yes.”

(If you could only find her! Ah, how cold it was that night, and bitter,
with a howling wind and wild steam blowing from the pavement gratings
where the ragged children were making to sleep early under their poor
newspapers. Yet none was more homeless than you, as it grew later and
colder and darker, and still you had not found her! And a sorrowful
voice seemed to be wailing down the street at you with the wind calling
its name: Via Dolorosa, Via Dolorosa! And then somehow it was early the
next morning directly after she had left the Canada—you brought one of
her suitcases down yourself though you didn’t see her off—and you were
sitting in the hotel bar drinking mescal with ice in it that chilled
your stomach, you kept swallowing the lemon pips, when suddenly a man
with the look of an executioner came from the street dragging two little
fawns shrieking with fright into the kitchen. And later you heard them
screaming, being slaughtered probably. And you thought: better not
remember what you thought. And later still, after Oaxaca, when you had
returned here to Quauhnahuac, through the anguish of that
return—circling down from the Tres Marías in the Plymouth, seeing the
town below through the mist, and then the town itself, the landmarks,
your soul dragged past them as at the tail of a runaway horse—when you
returned here—)

“The cats had died,” he said, “when I got back—Pedro insisted it was
typhoid. Or rather, poor old Oedipuss died the very day you left
apparently, he’d already been thrown down the barranca, while little
Pathos was lying in the garden under the plantains when I arrived
looking even sicker than when we first picked her out of the gutter;
dying, though no one could make out what of: Maria claimed it was a
broken heart—”

“Cheery little matter,” Yvonne answered in a lost hard tone with her
face still turned to the wall.

“Do you remember your song, I won’t sing it: ‘No work has been done by
the little cat, no work has been done by the big cat, no work has been
done, by an-y-one!’” the Consul heard himself ask; tears of sorrow came
to his eyes, he removed his dark glasses quickly and buried his face on
her shoulder. “No, but Hugh,” she began—“Never mind Hugh,” he had not
meant to elicit this, to thrust her back against the pillows; he felt
her body stiffen, becoming hard and cold. Yet her consent did not seem
from weariness only, but to a solution for one shared instant beautiful
as trumpets out of a clear sky . . .

But he could feel now, too, trying the prelude, the preparatory
nostalgic phrases on his wife’s senses, the image of his possession,
like that jewelled gate the desperate neophyte, Yesod-bound, projects
for the thousandth time on the heavens to permit passage of his astral
body, fading, and slowly, inexorably, that of a cantina, when in dead
silence and peace it first opens in the morning, taking its place. It
was one of those cantinas that would be opening now, at nine o’clock:
and he was queerly conscious of his own presence there with the angry
tragic words, the very words which might soon be spoken, glaring behind
him. This image faded also: he was where he was, sweating now, glancing
once—but never ceasing to play the prelude, the little one-fingered
introduction to the unclassifiable composition that might still just
follow—out of the window at the drive, fearful himself lest Hugh appear
there, then he imagined he really saw him at the end of it coming
through the gap, now that he distinctly heard his step in the gravel
. . . No one. But now, now he wanted to go, passionately he wanted to
go, aware that the peace of the cantina was changing to its first
fevered preoccupation of the morning: the political exile in the corner
discreetly sipping orange crush, the accountant arriving, accounts
gloomily surveyed, the iceblock dragged in by a brigand with an iron
scorpion, the one bartender slicing lemons, the other, sleep in his
eyes, sorting beer bottles. And now, now he wanted to go, aware that the
place was filling with people not at any other time part of the
cantina’s community at all, people eructating, exploding, committing
nuisances, lassoes over their shoulders, aware too of the debris from
the night before, the dead matchboxes, lemon peel, cigarettes open like
tortillas, the dead packages of them swarming in filth and sputum. Now
that the clock over the mirror would say a little past nine, and the
news-vendors of _La Prensa_ and _El Universal_ were stamping in, or
standing in the corner at this very moment before the crowded grimed
mingitorio with the shoe-blacks who carried their shoestools in their
hands, or had left them balanced between the burning footrail and the
bar, now he wanted to go! Ah none but he knew how beautiful it all was,
the sunlight, sunlight, sunlight flooding the bar of El Puerto del Sol,
flooding the watercress and oranges, or falling in a single golden line
as if in the act of conceiving a God, falling like a lance straight into
a block of ice—

“Sorry, it isn’t any good I’m afraid.” The Consul shut the door behind
him and a small rain of plaster showered on his head. A Don Quixote fell
from the wall. He picked up the sad straw knight . . .

And then the whiskey bottle: he drank fiercely from it.

He had not forgotten his glass however, and into it he was now pouring
himself chaotically a long drink of his strychnine mixture, half by
mistake, he’d meant to pour the whiskey. “Strychnine is an aphrodisiac.
Perhaps it will take immediate effect. It still may not be too late.” He
had sunk through, it almost felt, the green cane rocking chair.

He just managed to reach his glass left on the tray and held it now in
his hands, weighing it, but—for he was trembling again, not slightly,
but violently, like a man with Parkinson’s disease or palsy—unable to
bring it to his lips. Then without drinking he set it on the parapet.
After a while, his whole body quaking, he rose deliberately and poured,
somehow, into the other unused tumbler Concepta had not removed, about a
half quartern of whiskey. Nació 1820 y siguiendo tan campante.
Siguiendo. Born 1896 and still going flat. I love you, he murmured,
gripping the bottle with both hands as he replaced it on the tray. He
now brought the tumbler filled with whiskey back to his chair and sat
with it in his hands, thinking. Presently without having drunk from this
glass either he set it on the parapet next to his strychnine. He sat
watching both the glasses. Behind him in the room he heard Yvonne
crying.

—“Have you forgotten the letters Geoffrey Firmin the letters she wrote
till her heart broke why do you sit there trembling why do you not go
back to her now she will understand after all it hasn’t always been that
way toward the end perhaps but you could laugh at this you could laugh
at it why do you think she is weeping it is not for that alone you have
done this to her my boy the letters you not only have never answered you
didn’t you did you didn’t you did then where is your reply but have
never really read where are they now they are lost Geoffrey Firmin lost
or left somewhere even we do not know where—”

The Consul reached forward and absentmindedly managed a sip of whiskey;
the voice might have been either of his familiars or—

Hullo, good morning.

The instant the Consul saw the thing he knew it an hallucination and he
sat, quite calmly now, waiting for the object shaped like a dead man and
which seemed to be lying flat on its back by his swimming pool, with a
large sombrero over its face, to go away. So the “other” had come again.
And now gone, he thought: but no, not quite, for there was still
something there, in some way connected with it, or here, at his elbow,
or behind his back, in front of him now; no, that too, whatever it was,
was going: perhaps it had only been the coppery-tailed trogon stirring
in the bushes, his “ambiguous bird” that was now departing quickly on
creaking wings, like a pigeon once it was in flight, heading for its
solitary home in the Canyon of the Wolves, away from the people with
ideas.

“Damn it, I feel pretty well,” he thought suddenly, finishing his half
quatern. He stretched out for the whiskey bottle, failed to reach it,
rose again and poured himself another finger. “My hand is much steadier
already.” He finished this whiskey and taking the glass and the bottle
of Johnny Walker, which was fuller than he’d imagined, crossed the porch
to its furthest corner and placed them in a cupboard. There were two old
golf balls in the cupboard. “Play with me I can still carry the eighth
green in three. I am tapering off,” he said. “What am I talking about?
Even I know I am being fatuous.”

“I shall sober up.” He returned and poured some more strychnine into the
other glass, filling it, then moved the strychnine bottle from the tray
into a more prominent position on the parapet. “After all I have been
out all night: what could one expect?”

“I am too sober. I have lost my familiars, my guardian angels. I am
straightening out,” he added, sitting down again opposite the strychnine
bottle with his glass. “In a sense what happened was a sign of my
fidelity, my loyalty; any other man would have spent this last year in a
very different manner. At least I have no disease,” he cried in his
heart, the cry seeming to end on a somewhat doubtful note, however. “And
perhaps it’s fortunate I’ve had some whiskey since alcohol is an
aphrodisiac too. One must never forget either that alcohol is a food.
How can a man be expected to perform his marital duties without food?
Marital? At all events I am progressing, slowly but surely. Instead of
immediately rushing out to the Bella Vista and getting drunk as I did
the last time all this happened and we had that disastrous quarrel about
Jacques and I smashed the electric light bulb, I have stayed here. True,
I had the car before and it was easier. But here I am. I am not
escaping. And what’s more I intend to have a hell of a sight better time
staying.” The Consul sipped his strychnine, then put his glass on the
floor.

“The will of man is unconquerable. Even God cannot conquer it.”

He lay back in his chair. Ixtaccihuatl and Popocatepetl, that image of
the perfect marriage, lay now clear and beautiful on the horizon under
an almost pure morning sky. Far above him a few white clouds were racing
windily after a pale gibbous moon. Drink all morning, they said to him,
drink all day. This is life!

Enormously high too, he noted some vultures waiting, more graceful than
eagles as they hovered there like burnt papers floating from a fire
which suddenly are seen to be blowing swiftly upward, rocking.

The shadow of an immense weariness stole over him . . . The Consul fell
asleep with a crash.




                                   IV


    DAILY GLOBE _intelube londres presse collect following
    yesterdays headcoming antisemitic campaign mexpress propetition
    see tee emma mexworkers confederation proexpulsion exmexico
    quote small jewish textile manufacturers unquote twas learned
    to-day per reliable source that german legation mexcity actively
    behind the campaign etstatement that legation gone length
    sending antisemitic propaganda mexdept interiorwards borne out
    propamphlet possession local newspaperman stop pamphlet asserts
    jews influence unfavourably any country they live etemphasises
    quote their belief absolute power etthat they gain their ends
    without conscience or consideration unquote stop Firmin._

Reading it over once more, the carbon of his final dispatch (sent that
morning from the Oficina Principal of the Compañía Telegráfica Mexicana
Esq., San Juan de Letrán é Independencia, México, D.F.) Hugh Firmin less
than sauntered, so slowly did he move, up the drive towards his
brother’s house, his brother’s jacket balanced on his shoulder, one arm
thrust almost to the elbow through the twin handles of his brother’s
small gladstone bag, his pistol in the checkered holster lazily slapping
his thigh: eyes in my feet, I must have, as well as straw, he thought,
stopping on the edge of the deep pothole, and then his heart and the
world stopped too; the horse half over the hurdle, the diver, the
guillotine, the hanged man falling, the murderer’s bullet and the
cannon’s breath, in Spain or China frozen in midair, the wheel, the
piston, poised—

Yvonne, or something woven from the filaments of the past that looked
like her, was working in the garden, and at a little distance appeared
clothed entirely in sunlight. Now she stood up straight—she was wearing
yellow slacks—and was squinting at him, one hand raised to shield her
eyes from the sun.

Hugh jumped over the pothole to the grass; disentangling himself from
the bag he knew an instant’s paralysed confusion, and reluctance to meet
the past. The bag, decanted on the faded rustic seat, disgorged into its
lid a bald toothbrush, a rusty safety-razor, his brother’s shirt, and a
second-hand copy of Jack London’s _Valley of the Moon_, bought yesterday
for fifteen centavos at the German bookstore opposite Sandborns in
Mexico City. Yvonne was waving.

And he was advancing (just as on the Ebro they were retreating) the
borrowed jacket still somehow balanced, half slung on his shoulder, his
broad hat in one hand, the cable, folded, still somehow in the other.

“Hullo, Hugh. Gosh, I thought for a moment you were Bill
Hodson—Geoffrey said you were here. How nice to see you again.”

Yvonne brushed the dirt from her palms and held out her hand, which he
did not grip, nor even feel at first, then dropped as if carelessly,
becoming conscious of a pain in his heart and also of a faint giddiness.

“How absolutely something or other. When did you get here?”

“Just a little while ago.” Yvonne was plucking the dead blossoms from
some potted plants resembling zinnias, with fragrant delicate white and
crimson flowers, that were ranged on a low wall; she took the cable Hugh
had for some reason handed her along to the next flower pot: “I hear
you’ve been in Texas. Have you become a drugstore cowboy?”

Hugh replaced his ten-gallon Stetson on the back of his head, laughing
down, embarrassed, at his high-heeled boots, the too-tight trousers
tucked inside them. “They impounded my clothes at the border. I meant to
buy some new ones in the City but somehow never got around to it . . .
You look awfully well!”

“And you!”

He began to button his shirt, which was open to the waist, revealing,
above the two belts, the skin more black than brown with sun; he patted
the bandolier below his lower belt, which slanted diagonally to the
holster resting on his hipbone and attached to his right leg by a flat
leather thong, patted the thong (he was secretly enormously proud of his
whole outfit), then the breast pocket of his shirt, where he found a
loose rolled cigarette he was lighting when Yvonne said:

“What’s this, the new message from Garcia?”

“The C.T.M.,” Hugh glanced over her shoulder at his cable, “the
Confederation of Mexican Workers, have sent a petition. They object to
certain Teutonic huggermugger in this state. As I see it, they are right
to object.” Hugh gazed about the garden; where was Geoff? Why was she
here? She is too casual. Are they not separated or divorced after all?
What is the point? Yvonne handed back the cable and Hugh slipped it into
the pocket of the jacket. “That,” he said, climbing into it, since they
were now standing in the shade, “is the last cable I send the _Globe_.”

“So Geoffrey—” Yvonne stared at him: she pulled the jacket down at the
back (knowing it Geoff’s?), the sleeves were too short: her eyes seemed
hurt and unhappy, but vaguely amused: her expression as she went on
paring blossoms managed to be both speculative and indifferent; she
asked:

“What’s all this I hear about you travelling on a cattletruck?”

“I entered Mexico disguised as a cow so they’d think I was a Texan at
the border and I wouldn’t have to pay any head tax. Or worse,” Hugh
said, “England being persona non grata here, so to speak, after
Cárdenas’ oil shindig. Morally of course we’re at war with Mexico, in
case you didn’t know—where’s our ruddy monarch?”

“—Geoffrey’s asleep,” Yvonne said, not meaning plastered by any chance,
Hugh thought. “But doesn’t your paper take care of those things?”

“Well. It’s muy complicado . . . I’d sent my resignation in to the
_Globe_ from the States but they hadn’t replied—here, let me do that—”

Yvonne was trying to thrust back a stubborn branch of bougainvillea
blocking some steps he hadn’t noticed before.

“I take it you heard we were in Quauhnahuac?”

“I’d discovered I might kill several birds with one stone by coming to
Mexico . . . Of course it was a surprise you _weren’t_ here—”

“Isn’t the garden a _wreck_?” Yvonne said suddenly.

“It looks quite beautiful to me, considering Geoffrey hasn’t had a
gardener for so long.” Hugh had mastered the branch—they are losing the
Battle of the Ebro because I did that—and there were the steps; Yvonne
grimaced, moving down them, and halted near the bottom to inspect an
oleander that looked reasonably poisonous, and was even still in bloom:

“And your friend, was he a cattleman or disguised as a cow too?”

“A smuggler, I think. Geoff told you about Weber, eh?” Hugh chuckled. “I
strongly suspect him of running ammunition. Anyhow I got into an
argument with the fellow in a dive in El Paso and it turned out he’d
somehow arranged to go as far as Chihuahua by cattletruck, which seemed
a good idea, and then fly to Mexico City. Actually we did fly, from some
place with a weird name, like Cusihuriachic, arguing all the way down,
you know—he was one of these American semi-fascist blokes, been in the
Foreign Legion, God knows what. But Parián was where he really wanted to
go so he sat us down conveniently in the field here. It was quite a
trip.”

“Hugh, how like you!”

Yvonne stood below smiling up at him, hands in the pockets of her
slacks, feet wide apart like a boy. Her breasts stood up under her
blouse embroidered with birds and flowers and pyramids she had probably
bought or brought for Geoff’s benefit, and once more Hugh felt the pain
in his heart and looked away.

“I probably should have shot the bastardo out of hand: only he was a
decent sort of swine—”

“You can see Parián from here sometimes.”

Hugh was offering the thin air a cigarette. “Isn’t it rather
indefatigably English or something of Geoff to be asleep?” He followed
Yvonne down the path. “Here, it’s my last machine-made one.”

“Geoffrey was at the Red Cross Ball last night. He’s pretty tired, poor
dear.” They walked on together, smoking, Yvonne pausing every few steps
to uproot some weed or other until, suddenly, she stopped, gazing down
at a flower-bed that was completely, grossly strangled by a coarse green
vine. “My God, this used to be a beautiful garden. It was like
Paradise.”

“Let’s get the hell out of it then. Unless you’re too tired for a walk.”
A snore, ricochetting, agonized, embittered, but controlled, single, was
wafted to his ears: the muted voice of England long asleep.

Yvonne glanced hastily around as if fearful Geoff might come catapulting
out of the window, bed and all, unless he was on the porch, and
hesitated. “Not a bit,” she said brightly, warmly. “Let’s do . . .” She
started down the path before him. “What are we waiting for?”

Unconsciously, he had been watching her, her bare brown neck and arms,
the yellow slacks, and the vivid scarlet flowers behind her, the brown
hair circling her ears, the graceful swift movements of her yellow
sandals in which she seemed to dance, to be floating rather than
walking. He caught up with her and once more they walked on together,
avoiding a long-tailed bird that glided down to alight near them like a
spent arrow.

The bird swaggered ahead of them now down the cratered drive, through
the gateless gate, where it was joined by a crimson and white turkey, a
pirate attempting to escape under full sail, and into the dusty street.
They were laughing at the birds, but the things they might have gone on
to say under somewhat different circumstances, as: I wonder what’s
happened to our bikes, or, do you remember, in Paris, that café, with
the tables up the trees, in Robinson, remained unspoken.

They turned to the left, away from the town. The road declined sharply
below them. At the bottom rose purple hills. Why is this not bitter, he
thought, why is it not indeed, it was already: Hugh was aware for the
first time of the other gnawing, as the Calle Nicaragua, the walls of
the large residences left behind, became an almost unnavigable chaos of
loose stones and potholes. Yvonne’s bicycle wouldn’t have been much use
here.

“What on earth were _you_ doing in Texas, Hugh?”

“Stalking Okies. That is, I was after them in Oklahoma. I thought the
_Globe_ ought to be interested in Okies. Then I went down to this ranch
in Texas. That’s where I’d heard about these chaps from the dust bowl
not being allowed to cross the border.”

“What an old Nosey Parker you are!”

“I landed in Frisco just in time for Munich.” Hugh stared over to the
left where in the distance the latticed watchtower of the Alcapancingo
prison had just appeared with little figures on top gazing east and west
through binoculars.

“They’re just playing. The police here love to be mysterious, like you.
Where were you before that? We must have just missed each other in
Frisco.”

A lizard vanished into the bougainvillea growing along the roadbank,
wild bougainvillea now, an overflux, followed by a second lizard. Under
the bank gaped a half-shored-in hole, another entrance to the mine
perhaps. Precipitous fields fell away down to their right, tilting
violently at every angle. Far beyond them, cupped by hills, he made out
the old bull ring and again he heard Weber’s voice in the plane,
shouting, yelling in his ear, as they passed the pinch-bottle of
habanero between them: “_Quauhnahuac! That’s where they crucified the
women in the bull rings during the revolution and set the bulls at them.
And that’s a nice thing to say! The blood ran down the gutters and they
barbecued the dogs in the market place. They shoot first and ask
questions later! You’re goddamn right!_—” But there was no revolution
in Quauhnahuac now and in the stillness the purple slopes before them,
the fields, even the watchtower and the bull ring, seemed to be
murmuring of peace, of paradise indeed. “China,” he said.

Yvonne turned, smiling, though her eyes were troubled and perplexed:
“What about the war?” she said.

“That was the point. I fell out of an ambulance with three dozen beer
bottles and six journalists on top of me and that’s when I decided it
might be healthier to go to California.” Hugh glanced suspiciously at a
billy goat which had been following them on their right along the grass
margin between the road and a wire fence, and which now stood there
motionless, regarding them with patriarchal contempt. “No, they’re the
lowest form of animal life, except possibly—look out!—my God, I knew
it—” The goat had charged and Hugh felt the sudden intoxicating
terrified incidence and warmth of Yvonne’s body as the animal missed
them, skidded, slithered round the abrupt leftward bend the road took at
this point over a low stone bridge, and disappeared beyond up a hill,
furiously trailing its tether. “Goats,” he said, twisting Yvonne firmly
out of his arms. “Even when there are no wars think of the damage they
do,” he went on, through something nervous, mutually dependent still,
about their mirth. “I mean journalists, not goats. There’s no punishment
on earth fit for them. Only the Malebolge . . . And here is the
Malebolge.”

The Malebolge was the barranca, the ravine which wound through the
country, narrow here—but its momentousness successfully prescinded
their minds from the goat. The little stone bridge on which they stood
crossed it. Trees, their tops below them, grew down into the gulch,
their foliage partly obscuring the terrific drop. From the bottom came a
faint chuckling of water.

“This ought to be about the place, if Alcapancingo’s over there,” Hugh
said, “where Bernal Díaz and his Tlaxcalans got across to beat up
Quauhnahuac. Superb name for a dance band: Bernal Díaz and his
Tlaxcalans . . . Or didn’t you get around to Prescott at the University
of Hawaii?”

“Mn hm,” Yvonne said, meaning yes or no to the meaningless question, and
peering down the ravine with a shudder.

“I understand it made even old Díaz’ head swim.”

“I shouldn’t wonder.”

“You can’t see them, but it’s chock full of defunct newspapermen, still
spying through keyholes and persuading themselves they’re acting in the
best interests of democracy. But I’d forgotten you didn’t read the
papers. Eh?” Hugh laughed. “Journalism equals intellectual male
prostitution of speech and writing, Yvonne. That’s one point on which
I’m in complete agreement with Spengler. Hullo.” Hugh looked up suddenly
at a sound, unpleasantly familiar, as of a thousand carpets being
simultaneously beaten in the distance: the uproar, seeming to emanate
from the direction of the volcanoes, which had almost imperceptibly come
into view on the horizon, was followed presently by the prolonged
_twang-piiing_ of its echo.

“Target practice,” Yvonne said. “They’re at it again.”

Parachutes of smoke were drifting over the mountains; they watched a
minute in silence. Hugh sighed and started to roll a cigarette.

“I had an English friend fighting in Spain, and if he’s dead I expect
he’s still there.” Hugh licked the fold of paper, sealed it and lit it,
the cigarette drawing hot and fast. “As a matter of fact he was reported
dead twice but he turned up again the last two times. He was there in
’36. While they were waiting for Franco to attack he lay with his
machine gun in the library at University City reading De Quincey, whom
he hadn’t read before. I may be exaggerating about the machine gun
though: I don’t think they had one between them. He was a communist and
approximately the best man I’ve ever met. He had a taste for Vin Rosé
d’Anjou. He also had a dog named Harpo, back in London. You probably
wouldn’t have expected a communist to have a dog named Harpo—or would
you?”

“Or would you?”

Hugh put one foot up on the parapet and regarded his cigarette that
seemed bent, like humanity, on consuming itself as quickly as possible.

“I had another friend who went to China, but didn’t know what to make of
that, or they didn’t of him, so he went to Spain too as a volunteer. He
was killed by a stray shell before seeing any action at all. Both these
fellows had perfectly good lives at home. They hadn’t robbed the bank.”
He was lamely silent.

“Of course we left Spain about a year before it started, but Geoffrey
used to say there was far too much sentiment about this whole business
of going to die for the Loyalists. In fact, he said he thought it would
be much better if the fascists just won and got it over with—”

“He has a new line now. He says _when_ the fascists win there’ll only be
a sort of ‘freezing’ of culture in Spain—by the way, is that the moon
up there?—well, freezing anyway. Which will presumably thaw at some
future date when it will be discovered, if you please, simply to have
been in a state of suspended animation. I dare say it’s true as far as
that goes. Incidentally, did you know _I_ was in Spain?”

“No,” Yvonne said, startled.

“Oh yes. I fell out of an ambulance there with only two dozen beer
bottles and five journalists on top of me, all heading for Paris. That
wasn’t so very long after I last saw you. The thing was, just as the
Madrid show was really getting under way, as it turned out, it seemed
all up, so the _Globe_ told me to beat it . . . And like a heel I went,
though they sent me back again afterwards for a time. I didn’t go to
China until after Brihuega.”

Yvonne gave him an odd look, then said:

“Hugh, you’re not thinking of going back to Spain _now_ are you, by any
chance?”

Hugh shook his head, laughing: he meticulously dropped his ravaged
cigarette down the ravine. “Cui bono? To stand in for the noble army of
pimps and experts, who’ve already gone home to practice the little
sneers with which they propose to discredit the whole thing—the first
moment it becomes fashionable not to be a communist fence. No, muchas
gracias. And I’m completely through with newspaper work, it isn’t a
pose.” Hugh put his thumbs under his belt. “So—since they got the
Internationals out five weeks ago, on the twenty-eighth of September to
be precise—two days before Chamberlain went to Godesburg and neatly
crimped the Ebro offensive—and with half the last bunch of volunteers
still rotting in gaol in Perpignan, how do you suppose one could get in
anyway, at this late date?”

“Then what did Geoffrey mean by saying that you ‘wanted action’ and all
that? . . . And what’s this mysterious other purpose you came down here
for?”

“It’s really rather tedious,” Hugh answered. “As a matter of fact I’m
going back to sea for a while. If all goes well I’ll be sailing from
Vera Cruz in about a week. As quartermaster, you knew I had an A.B.’s
ticket didn’t you? Well, I might have got a ship in Galveston but it’s
not so easy as it used to be. Anyway it’ll be more amusing to sail from
Vera Cruz. Havana, perhaps Nassau and then, you know, down to the West
Indies and São Paulo. I’ve always wanted to take a look at
Trinidad—might be some real fun coming out of Trinidad one day. Geoff
helped me with a couple of introductions but no more than that, I didn’t
want to make him responsible. No, I’m merely fed to the teeth with
myself, that’s all. Try persuading the world not to cut its throat for
half a decade or more, like me, under one name or another, and it’ll
begin to dawn on you that even _your_ behavior’s part of its plan. I ask
you, what do we know?”

And Hugh thought: the S.S. _Noemijolea_, 6,000 tons, leaving Vera Cruz
on the night of November 13-14 (?), 1938, with antimony and coffee,
bound for Freetown, British West Africa, will proceed thither, oddly
enough, from Tzucox on the Yucatan coast, and also in a northeasterly
direction: in spite of which she will still emerge through the passages
named Windward and Crooked into the Atlantic Ocean: where after many
days out of sight of land she will make eventually the mountainous
landfall of Madeira: whence, avoiding Port Lyautey and carefully keeping
her destination in Sierra Leone some 1800 miles to the southeast, she
will pass, with luck, through the straits of Gibraltar. Whence again,
negotiating, it is profoundly to be hoped, Franco’s blockade, she will
proceed with the utmost caution into the Mediterranean Sea, leaving
first Cape de Gata, then Cape de Palos, then Cape de la Nao, well aft:
thence, the Pityusae Isles sighted, she will roll through the Gulf of
Valencia and so northwards past Carlos de la Rápita, and the mouth of
the Ebro until the rocky Garraf coast looms abaft the beam where
finally, still rolling, at Vallcarca, twenty miles south of Barcelona,
she will discharge her cargo of T.N.T. for the hard-pressed Loyalist
armies and probably be blown to smithereens—

Yvonne was staring down the barranca, her hair hanging over her face: “I
know Geoff sounds pretty foul sometimes,” she was saying, “but there’s
one point where I do agree with him, these romantic notions about the
International Brigade—”

But Hugh was standing at the wheel: Potato Firmin or Columbus in
reverse: below him the foredeck of the _Noemijolea_ lay over in the blue
trough and spray slowly exploded through the lee scuppers into the eyes
of the seaman chipping a winch: on the forecastle head the lookout
echoed one bell, struck by Hugh a moment before, and the seaman gathered
up his tools: Hugh’s heart was lifting with the ship, he was aware that
the officer on duty had changed from white to blue for winter but at the
same time of exhilaration, the limitless purification of the sea—

Yvonne flung her hair back impatiently and stood up. “If they’d stayed
out of it the war would have been over long ago!”

“Well there ain’t no brigade no mo’,” Hugh said absently, for it was not
a ship he was steering now, but the world, out of the Western Ocean of
its misery. “If the paths of glory lead but to the grave—I once made
such an excursion into poetry—then Spain’s the grave where England’s
glory led.”

“Fiddlesticks!”

Hugh suddenly laughed, not loud, probably at nothing at all: he
straightened himself with a swift movement and jumped on the parapet.

“Hugh!”

“My God. Horses,” Hugh said, glancing and stretching himself to his full
mental height of six feet two (he was five feet eleven).

“Where?”

He was pointing. “Over there.”

“Of course,” Yvonne said slowly, “I’d forgotten—they belong to the
Casino de la Selva: they put them out there to pasture or something. If
we go up the hill a ways we’ll come to the place—”

. . . On a gentle slope to their left now, colts with glossy coats were
rolling in the grass. They turned off the Calle Nicaragua along a narrow
shady lane leading down one side of the paddock. The stables were part
of what appeared to be a model dairy farm. It stretched away behind the
stables on level ground where tall English-looking trees lined either
side of a grassy wheel-rutted avenue. In the distance a few rather large
cows, which, however, like Texas longhorns, bore a disturbing
resemblance to stags (you’ve got your cattle again, I see, Yvonne said)
were lying under the trees. A row of shining milkpails stood outside the
stables in the sun. A sweet smell of milk and vanilla and wild flowers
hung about the quiet place. And the sun was over all.

“Isn’t it an adorable farm,” Yvonne said. “I believe it’s some
government experiment. I’d love to have a farm like that.”

“—perhaps you’d like to hire a couple of those greater kudus over there
instead?”

Their horses proved two pesos an hour apiece. “Muy correcto,” the stable
boy’s dark eyes flashed good-humouredly at Hugh’s boots as he turned
swiftly to adjust Yvonne’s deep leather stirrups. Hugh didn’t know why,
but this lad reminded him of how, in Mexico City, if you stand at a
certain place on the Paseo de la Reforma in the early morning, suddenly
everyone in sight will seem to be running, laughing, to work, in the
sunlight, past the statue of Pasteur . . . “Muy _in_correcto,” Yvonne
surveyed her slacks: she swung, swung twice into the saddle. “We’ve
never ridden together before, have we?” She leaned forward to pat her
mare’s neck as they swayed forward.

They ambled up the lane, accompanied by two foals, which had followed
their mothers out of the paddock, and an affectionate scrubbed woolly
white dog belonging to the farm. After a while the lane branched off
into a main road. They seemed to be in Alcapancingo itself, a sort of
straggling suburb. The watchtower, nearer, taller, bloomed above a wood,
through which they just made out the high prison walls. On the other
side, to their left, Geoffrey’s house came in sight, almost a bird’s-eye
view, the bungalow crouching, very tiny, before the trees, the long
garden below descending steeply, parallel with which on different levels
obliquely climbing the hill, all the other gardens of the contiguous
residences, each with its cobalt oblong of swimming pool, also descended
steeply toward the barranca, the land sweeping away at the top of the
Calle Nicaragua back up to the pre-eminence of Cortez Palace. Could that
white dot down there be Geoffrey himself? Possibly to avoid coming to a
place where, by the entrance to the public garden, they must be almost
directly opposite the house, they trotted into another lane that
inclined to their right. Hugh was pleased to see that Yvonne rode
cowboy-fashion, jammed to the saddle, and not, as Juan Cerillo put it,
“as in gardens.” The prison was now behind them and he imagined
themselves jogging into enormous focus for the inquisitive binoculars up
there on the watchtower; “Guapa,” one policeman would say. “Ah, muy
hermosa,” another might call, delighted with Yvonne and smacking his
lips. The world was always within the binoculars of the police. Meantime
the foals, which perhaps were not fully aware that a road was a means of
getting somewhere and not, like a field, something to roll on or eat,
kept straying into the undergrowth on either hand. Then the mares
whinneyed after them anxiously and they scrambled back again. Presently
the mares grew tired of whinneying, so in a way he had learned Hugh
whistled instead. He had pledged himself to guard the foals but actually
the dog was guarding all of them. Evidently trained to detect snakes, he
would run ahead then double back to make sure all were safe before
loping on once more. Hugh watched him a moment. It was certainly hard to
reconcile this dog with the pariahs one saw in town, those dreadful
creatures that seemed to shadow his brother everywhere.

“You do sound astonishingly like a horse,” Yvonne said suddenly.
“Wherever did you learn that?”

“Wh-wh-wh-wh-wh-wh-wh-wh-wheeee-u,” Hugh whistled again. “In Texas.” Why
had he said Texas? He had learned the trick in Spain, from Juan Cerillo.
Hugh took off his jacket and laid it across the horse’s withers in front
of the saddle. Turning round as the foals came obediently plunging out
of the bushes he added:

“It’s the wheee-u that does it. The dying fall of the whinney.”

They passed the goat, two fierce cornucopias over a hedge. There could
be no mistaking it. Laughing they tried to decide if it had turned off
the Calle Nicaragua at the other lane or at its juncture with the
Alcapancingo road. The goat was cropping at the edge of a field and
lifted toward them, now, a Machiavellian eye, but did not move further,
watching them. _I may have missed that time. I am still on the warpath
however._

The new lane, peaceful, quite shady, deep-rutted, and despite the dry
spell still full of pools, beautifully reflecting the sky, wandered on
between clumps of trees and broken hedges screening indeterminate
fields, and now it was as though they were a company, a caravan,
carrying, for their greater security, a little world of love with them
as they rode along. Earlier it had promised to be too hot: but just
enough sun warmed them, a soft breeze caressed their faces, the
countryside on either hand smiled upon them with deceptive innocence, a
drowsy hum rose up from the morning, the mares nodded, there were the
foals, here was the dog, and it is all a bloody lie, he thought: we have
fallen inevitably into it, it is as if, upon this one day in the year
the dead come to life, or so one was reliably informed on the bus, this
day of visions and miracles, by some contrariety we have been allowed
for one hour a glimpse of what never was at all, of what never can be
since brotherhood was betrayed, the image of our happiness, of that it
would be better to think could not have been. Another thought struck
Hugh. And yet I do not expect, ever in my life, to be happier than I am
now. No peace I shall ever find but will be poisoned as these moments
are poisoned—

(“Firmin, you are a poor sort of good man.” The voice might have come
from an imaginary member of their caravan, and Hugh pictured Juan
Cerillo distinctly now, tall, and riding a horse much too small for him,
without stirrups, so that his feet nearly touched the ground, his wide
ribboned hat on the back of his head, and a typewriter in a box slung
around his neck resting on the pommel; in one free hand he held a bag of
money, and a boy was running along beside him in the dust. Juan Cerillo!
He had been one of the fairly rare overt human symbols in Spain of the
generous help Mexico had actually given; he had returned home before
Brihuega. Trained as a chemist, he worked for a Credit Bank in Oaxaca
with the Ejido, delivering money on horseback to finance the collective
effort of remote Zapotecan villages; frequently beset by bandits
murderously yelling _Viva el Cristo Rey_, shot at by enemies of Cárdenas
in reverberating church towers, his daily job was equally an adventure
in a human cause, which Hugh had been invited to share. For Juan had
written, express, his letter in a bravely stamped envelope of thumbnail
size—the stamps showed archers shooting at the sun—written that he was
well, back at work, less than a hundred miles away, and now as each
glimpse of the mysterious mountains seemed to mourn this opportunity
lost to Geoff and the _Noemijolea_, Hugh seemed to hear his good friend
rebuking him. It was the same plangent voice that had said once, in
Spain, of his horse left in Cuicatlán: “My poor horse, she will be
biting, biting all the time.” But now it spoke of the Mexico of Juan’s
childhood, of the year Hugh was born. Juarez had lived and died. Yet was
it a country with free speech, and the guarantee of life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness? A country of brilliantly muralled schools, and
where even each little cold mountain village had its stone open-air
stage, and the land was owned by its people free to express their native
genius? A country of model farms: of hope?—It was a country of slavery,
where human beings were sold like cattle, and its native peoples, the
Yaquis, the Papagos, the Tomasachics, exterminated through deportation,
or reduced to worse than peonage, their lands in thrall or the hands of
foreigners. And in Oaxaca lay the terrible Valle Nacional where Juan
himself, a bona fide slave aged seven, had seen an older brother beaten
to death, and another, bought for forty-five pesos, starved to death in
seven months, because it was cheaper this should happen, and the slave
holder buy another slave, than simply have one slave better fed merely
worked to death in a year. All this spelt Porfirio Díaz: rurales
everywhere, jefes políticos, and murder, the extirpation of liberal
political institutions, the army an engine of massacre, an instrument of
exile. Juan knew this, having suffered it; and more. For later in the
revolution, his mother was murdered. And later still Juan himself killed
his father, who had fought with Huerta, but turned traitor. Ah, guilt
and sorrow had dogged Juan’s footsteps too, for he was not a Catholic
who could rise refreshed from the cold bath of confession. Yet the
banality stood: that the past was irrevocably past. And conscience had
been given man to regret it only in so far as that might change the
future. For man, every man, Juan seemed to be telling him, even as
Mexico, must ceaselessly struggle upward. What was life but a warfare
and a stranger’s sojourn? Revolution rages too in the tierra caliente of
each human soul. No peace but that must pay full toll to hell—)

“Is that so?”

“Is that so?”

They were all plodding downhill toward a river—even the dog, lulled in
a woolly soliloquy, was plodding—and now they were in it, the first
cautious heavy step forward, then the hesitation, then the surging
onward, the lurching surefootedness below one that was yet so delicate
there derived a certain sensation of lightness, as if the mare were
swimming, or floating through the air, bearing one across with the
divine surety of a Cristoferus, rather than by fallible instinct. The
dog swam ahead, fatuously important; the foals, nodding solemnly, swayed
along behind up to their necks: sunlight sparkled on the calm water,
which further downstream where the river narrowed broke into furious
little waves, swirling and eddying close inshore against black rocks,
giving an effect of wildness, almost of rapids; low over their heads an
ecstatic lightning of strange birds manoeuvred, looping-the-loop and
immelmaning at unbelievable speed, aerobatic as new-born dragon-flies.
The opposite shore was thickly wooded. Beyond the gently sloping bank, a
little to the left of what was apparently the cavernous entrance to the
continuation of their lane, stood a pulquería, decorated, above its
wooden twin swing doors (which from a distance looked not unlike the
immensely magnified chevrons of an American army sergeant) with gaily
coloured fluttering ribbons. _Pulques Finos_, it said in faded blue
letters on the oyster-white adobe wall: _La Sepultura_. A grim name: but
doubtless it had some humourous connotation. An Indian sat with his back
against the wall, his broad hat half down over his face, resting outside
in the sunshine. His horse, or a horse, was tethered near him to a tree
and Hugh could see from midstream the number seven branded on its rump.
An advertisement for the local cinema was stuck on the tree: _Las Manos
de Orlac con Peter Lorre_. On the roof of the pulquería a toy windmill,
of the kind one saw in Cape Cod, Massachusetts, was twirling restlessly
in the breeze. Hugh said:

“Your horse doesn’t want to drink, Yvonne, just to look at her
reflection. Let her. Don’t yank at her head.”

“I wasn’t. I know that too,” Yvonne said, with an ironic little smile.

They zigzagged slowly across the river; the dog, swimming like an otter,
had almost reached the opposite bank. Hugh became aware of a question in
the air.

“—you’re our house guest, you know.”

“Por favor.” Hugh inclined his head.

“—would you like to have dinner out and go to a movie? Or will you
brave Concepta’s cooking?”

“What what?” Hugh had been thinking, for some reason, of his first week
at his public school in England, a week of not knowing what one was
supposed to do or to answer to any question, but of being carried on by
a sort of pressure of shared ignorance into crowded halls, activities,
marathons, even exclusive isolations, as when he had found himself once
riding on horseback with the headmaster’s wife, a reward, he was told,
but for what he had never found out. “No, I think I should hate to go to
a movie, thank you very much,” he laughed.

“It’s a strange little place—you might find it fun. The newsreels used
to be about two years old and I shouldn’t think it’s changed any. And
the same features come back over and over again. _Cimarron_ and the
_Gold Diggers of 1930_ and oh—last year we saw a travelogue, _Come to
Sunny Andalusia_, by way of news from Spain—”

“Blimey,” Hugh said.

“And the lighting is _always_ failing.”

“I think I’ve seen the Peter Lorre movie somewhere. He’s a great actor
but it’s a lousy picture. Your horse doesn’t want to drink, Yvonne. It’s
all about a pianist who has a sense of guilt because he thinks his hands
are a murderer’s or something and keeps washing the blood off them.
Perhaps they really are a murderer’s but I forget.”

“It sounds creepy.”

“I know, but it isn’t.”

On the other side of the river their horses did want to drink and they
paused to let them. Then they rode up the bank into the lane. This time
the hedges were taller and thicker and twined with convolvulus. For that
matter they might have been in England, exploring some little-known
bypath of Devon or Cheshire. There was little to contradict the
impression save an occasional huddled conclave of vultures up a tree.
After climbing steeply through woodland the lane levelled off. Presently
they reached more open country and fell into a canter.—Christ, how
marvellous this was, or rather Christ, how he wanted to be deceived
about it, as must have Judas, he thought—and here it was again, damn
it—if ever Judas had a horse, or borrowed, stole one more likely, after
that Madrugada of all Madrugadas, regretting then that he had given the
thirty pieces of silver back—what is that to us, see thou to that, the
bastardos had said—when now he probably wanted a drink, thirty drinks
(like Geoff undoubtedly would this morning), and perhaps even so he had
managed a few on credit, smelling the good smells of leather and sweat,
listening to the pleasant clopping of the horse’s hooves and thinking,
how joyous all this could be, riding on like this under the dazzling sky
of Jerusalem—and forgetting for an instant, so that it really _was_
joyous—how splendid it all might be had I only not betrayed that man
last night, even though I knew perfectly well I was going to, how good
indeed, if only it had not happened though, if only it were not so
absolutely necessary to go out and hang oneself—

And here indeed it was again, the temptation, the cowardly, the
future-corruptive serpent: trample on it, stupid fool. Be Mexico. Have
you not passed through the river? In the name of God be dead. And Hugh
actually did ride over a dead garter snake, embossed on the path like a
belt to a pair of bathing trunks. Or perhaps it was a Gila monster.

They had emerged on the outermost edge of what looked like a spacious,
somewhat neglected park, spreading down on their right, or what had once
been a huge grove, planted with lofty majestic trees. They reined in and
Hugh, behind, rode slowly by himself for a while . . . The foals
separated him from Yvonne, who was staring blankly ahead as if
insensible to their surroundings. The grove seemed to be irrigated by
artificially banked streams, which were choked with leaves—though by no
means all the trees were deciduous and underneath were frequent dark
pools of shadow—and was lined with walks. Their lane had in fact become
one of these walks. A noise of shunting sounded on the left; the station
couldn’t be far off; probably it was hidden behind that hillock over
which hung a plume of white steam. But a railway track, raised above
scrub-land, gleamed through the trees to their right; the line
apparently made a wide detour round the whole place. They rode past a
dried-up fountain below some broken steps, its basin filled with twigs
and leaves. Hugh sniffed: a strong raw smell, he couldn’t identify at
first, pervaded the air. They were entering the vague precincts of what
might have been a French château. The building, half hidden by trees,
lay in a sort of courtyard at the end of the grove, which was closed by
a row of cypresses growing behind a high wall, in which a massive gate,
straight ahead of them, stood open. Dust was blowing across the gap.
_Cervecería Quauhnahuac_: Hugh now saw written in white letters on the
side of the château. He halloed and waved at Yvonne to halt. So the
château was a brewery, but of a very odd type—one that hadn’t quite
made up its mind not to be an open-air restaurant and beer garden.
Outside in the courtyard two or three round tables (more likely to
provide against the occasional visits of semi-official “tasters”)
blackened and leaf-covered, were set beneath immense trees not quite
familiar enough for oaks, not quite strangely tropical either, which
were perhaps not really very old, but possessed an indefinable air of
being immemorial, of having been planted centuries ago by some emperor,
at least, with a golden trowel. Under these trees, where their cavalcade
stopped, a little girl was playing with an armadillo.

Out of the brewery itself, which at close quarters appeared quite
different, more like a mill, sliced, oblong, which emitted a sudden
mill-like clamour, and on which flitted and slid mill-wheel-like
reflections of sunlight on water, cast from a nearby stream, out of a
glimpse of its very machinery, now issued a pied man, visored,
resembling a gamekeeper, bearing two foaming tankards of dark German
beer. They had not dismounted and he handed the beer up to them.

“God, that’s cold,” Hugh said, “good though.” The beer had a piercing
taste, half metallic, half earthy, like distilled loam. It was so cold
that it hurt.

“Buenos días, muchacha.” Yvonne, tankard in hand, was smiling down at
the child with the armadillo. The gamekeeper vanished through an ostiole
back into the machinery; closing away its clamour from them, as might an
engineer on shipboard. The child was crouching on her haunches holding
the armadillo and apprehensively eyeing the dog, who however lay at a
safe distance watching the foals inspect the rear of the plant. Each
time the armadillo ran off, as if on tiny wheels, the little girl would
catch it by its long whip of a tail and turn it over. How astonishingly
soft and helpless it appeared then! Now she righted the creature and set
it going once more, some engine of destruction perhaps that after
millions of years had come to this. “Cuánto?” Yvonne asked.

Catching the animal again the child piped:

“Cincuenta centavos.”

“You don’t really want it, do you?” Hugh—like General Winfield Scott,
he thought privately, after emerging from the ravines of the Cerro
Gordo—was sitting with one leg athwart the pommel.

Yvonne nodded in jest: “I’d adore it. It’s perfectly sweet.”

“You couldn’t make a pet of it. Neither can the kid: that’s why she
wants to sell it.” Hugh sipped his beer. “I know about armadillos.”

“Oh so do I!” Yvonne shook her head mockingly, opening her eyes very
wide. “But everything!”

“Then you know that if you let the thing loose in your garden it’ll
merely tunnel down into the ground and never come back.”

Yvonne was still half-mockingly shaking her head, her eyes wide. “Isn’t
he a darling?”

Hugh swung his leg back and sat now with his tankard propped on the
pommel looking down at the creature with its big mischievous nose,
iguana’s tail, and helpless speckled belly, a Martian infant’s toy. “No,
muchas gracias,” he said firmly to the little girl who, indifferent, did
not retreat. “It’ll not only never come back, Yvonne, but if you try to
stop it it will do its damndest to pull you down the hole too.” He
turned to her, eyebrows raised, and for a time they watched each other
in silence. “As your friend W. H. Hudson, I think it was, found out to
his cost,” Hugh added. A leaf fell off a tree somewhere behind them with
a crash, like a sudden footstep. Hugh drank a long cold draught.
“Yvonne,” he said, “do you mind if I ask you straight out if you _are_
divorced from Geoff or not?”

Yvonne choked on her beer; she wasn’t holding the reins at all, which
were looped round her pommel, and her horse gave a small lurch forward,
then halted before Hugh had time to reach for the bridle.

“Do you mean to go back to him or what? Or have you already gone back?”
Hugh’s mare had also taken a sympathetic step forward. “Forgive my being
so blunt, but I feel in a horribly false position.—I’d like to know
precisely what the situation is.”

“So would I.” Yvonne did not look at him.

“Then you don’t know whether you _have_ divorced him or not?”

“Oh, I’ve—divorced him,” she answered unhappily.

“But you don’t know whether you’ve gone back to him or not?”

“Yes. No . . . Yes. I’ve gone back to him all right all right.”

Hugh was silent while another leaf fell, crashed and hung tilted,
balanced in the undergrowth. “Then wouldn’t it be rather simpler for you
if I went away immediately,” he asked her gently, “instead of staying on
a little while as I’d hoped?—I’d been thinking of going to Oaxaca for a
day or two anyhow—”

Yvonne had raised her head at the word Oaxaca. “Yes,” she said. “Yes, it
might. Though, oh Hugh, I don’t like to say it, only—”

“Only what?”

“Only please don’t go away till we’ve talked it over. I’m so
frightened.”

Hugh was paying for the beers, which were only twenty centavos; thirty
less than the armadillo, he thought. “Or do you want another?” He had to
raise his voice above the renewed clamour of the plant: _dungeons_:
_dungeons_: _dungeons_: it said.

“I can’t finish this one. You finish it for me.”

Their cavalcade moved off again slowly, out of the courtyard, through
the massive gate into the road beyond. As by common consent they turned
right, away from the railway station. A camión was approaching behind
them from the town and Hugh reined in beside Yvonne while the dog herded
the foals along the ditch. The bus—_Tomalín_: _Zócalo_—disappeared,
clanging round a corner.

“That’s one way to get to Parián,” Yvonne averted her face from the
dust.

“Wasn’t that the Tomalín bus?”

“Just the same it’s the easiest way to get to Parián. I think there is a
bus goes straight there, but from the other end of the town, and by
another road, from Tepalzanco.”

“There seems to be something sinister about Parián.”

“It’s a very dull place actually. Of course it’s the old capital of the
state. Years ago there used to be a huge monastery there, I
believe—rather like Oaxaca in that respect. Some of the shops and even
the cantinas are part of what were once the monks’ quarters. But it’s
quite a ruin.”

“I wonder what Weber sees in it,” Hugh said. They left the cypresses and
the plant behind. Having come, unwarned, to a gateless level-crossing
they turned right once more, this time heading homeward.

They were riding abreast down the railway lines Hugh had seen from the
grove, flanking the grove in almost the opposite direction to the way
they had approached. On either side a low embankment sloped to a narrow
ditch, beyond which stretched scrub-land. Above them telegraph wires
twanged and whined: _guitarra guitarra guitarra_: which was, perhaps, a
better thing to say than _dungeons_. The railway—a double track but of
narrow-gauge—now divagated away from the grove, for no apparent reason,
then wandered back again parallel to it. A little further on, as if to
balance matters, it made a similar deviation toward the grove. But in
the distance it curved away in a wide leftward sweep of such proportions
one felt it must logically come to involve itself again with the Tomalín
road. This was too much for the telegraph poles that strode straight
ahead arrogantly and were lost from sight.

Yvonne was smiling. “I see you look worried. There’s really a story for
your _Globe_ in this line.”

“I can’t make out what sort of damn thing it is at all.”

“It was built by you English. Only the company was paid by the
kilometre.”

Hugh laughed loudly. “How marvellous. You don’t mean it was laid out in
this cockeyed fashion just for the sake of the extra mileage, do you?”

“That’s what they say. Though I don’t suppose it’s true.”

“Well, well. I’m disappointed. I’d been thinking it must be some
delightful Mexican whimsey. It certainly gives one to think however.”

“Of the capitalist system?” There was again a hint of mockery about
Yvonne’s smile.

“It reminds one of some story in _Punch_ . . . Did you know there was a
place called Punch in Kashmir by the by?” (Yvonne murmured, shaking her
head.) “—Sorry, I’ve forgotten what I was going to say.”

“What do you think about Geoffrey?” Yvonne asked the question at last.
She was leaning forward, resting on the pommel, watching him sideways.
“Hugh, tell me the truth. Do you think there’s any—well—hope for him?”
Their mares were picking their way delicately along this unusual lane,
the foals keeping further ahead than before, glancing round from time to
time for approbation at their daring. The dog ran ahead of the foals
though he never failed to dodge back periodically to see all was well.
He was sniffing busily for snakes among the metals.

“About his drinking, do you mean?”

“Do you think there’s anything I can do?”

Hugh looked down at some blue wildflowers like forget-me-nots that had
somehow found a place to grow between the sleepers on the track. These
innocents had their problem too: what is this frightful dark sun that
roars and strikes at our eyelids every few minutes? Minutes? Hours more
likely. Perhaps even days: the lone semaphores seemed permanently up, it
might be sadly expeditious to ask about trains oneself. “I dare say
you’ve heard about his ’strychnine,’ as he calls it,” Hugh said. “The
journalist’s cure. Well, I actually got the stuff by prescription from
some guy in Quauhnahuac who knew you both at one time.”

“Dr. Guzmán?”

“Yes, Guzmán, I think that was the name. I tried to persuade him to see
Geoff. But he refused to waste time on him. He said simply that so far
as he knew there was nothing wrong with Papa and never had been save
that he wouldn’t make up his mind to stop drinking. That seems plain
enough and I dare say it’s true.”

The track sank level with the scrub-land, then below it, so that the
embankments were now above them.

“It _isn’t_ drinking, somehow,” Yvonne said suddenly. “But why does he
do it?”

“Perhaps now you’ve come back like this he’ll stop.”

“You don’t sound very hopeful.”

“Yvonne, listen to me. So obviously there are a thousand things to say
and there isn’t going to be time to say most of them. It’s difficult to
know where to begin. I’m almost completely in the dark. I wasn’t even
sure you were divorced till five minutes ago. I don’t know—” Hugh
clicked his tongue at his horse but held her back. “As for Geoff,” he
went on, “I simply have no idea what he’s been doing or how much he’s
been drinking. Half the time you can’t tell when he’s tight anyway.”

“You couldn’t say that if you were his _wife_.”

“Wait a minute.—My attitude toward Geoff was simply the one I’d take
toward some brother scribe with a godawful hangover. But while I’ve been
in Mexico City I’ve been saying to myself: Cui bono? What’s the good?
Just sobering him up for a day or two’s not going to help. Good God, if
our civilization were to sober up for a couple of days it’d die of
remorse on the third—”

“That’s _very_ helpful,” Yvonne said. “Thank you.”

“Besides after a while one begins to feel, if a man can hold his liquor
as well as that why shouldn’t he drink?” Hugh leaned over and patted her
horse. “No, seriously, why don’t both of you get out, though? Out of
Mexico. There’s no reason for you to stay any longer, is there? Geoff
loathed the consular service anyway.” For a moment Hugh watched one of
the foals standing silhouetted against the sky on top of the embankment.
“You’ve got money.”

“You’ll forgive me when I tell you this, Hugh. It wasn’t because I
didn’t want to see you. But I tried to get Geoffrey to leave this
morning before you came back.”

“It was no go, eh?”

“Maybe it wouldn’t have worked anyhow. We tried it before, this getting
away and starting all over. But Geoffrey said something this morning
about going on with his book—for the life of me I don’t know whether
he’s still writing one or not, he’s never done any work on it since I’ve
known him, and he’s never let me see scarcely any of it, still, he keeps
all those reference books with him—and I thought—”

“Yes,” Hugh said, “how much does he really know about all this alchemy
and cabbala business? How much does it mean to him?”

“That’s just what I was going to ask you. I’ve never been able to find
out—”

“Good lord. I don’t know . . .” Hugh added with almost avuncular relish:
“Maybe he’s a black magician!”

Yvonne smiled absently, flicking her reins against the pommel. The track
emerged into the open and once more the embankments sloped down on
either side. High overhead sailed white sculpturings of clouds, like
billowing concepts in the brain of Michelangelo. One of the foals had
strayed from the track into the scrub. Hugh repeated the ritual of
whistling, the foal hauled itself back up the bank and they were a
company again, trotting smartly along the meandering selfish little
railroad. “Hugh,” Yvonne said, “I had an idea coming down on the boat
. . . I don’t know whether—I’ve always dreamed of having a farm
somewhere. A real farm, you know, with cows and pigs and chickens—and a
red barn and silos and fields of corn and wheat.”

“What, no guinea fowl? I might have a dream like that in a week or two,”
Hugh said. “Where does the farm come in?”

“Why—Geoffrey and I might buy one.”

“_Buy_ one?”

“Is that so fantastic?”

“I suppose not, but where?” Hugh’s pint-and-a-half of strong beer was
beginning to take pleasurable effect, and all at once he gave a guffaw
that was more like a sneeze. “I’m sorry,” he said, “it was just the
notion of Geoff among the alfalfa, in overalls and a straw hat, soberly
hoeing, that got me a moment.”

“It wouldn’t have to be as soberly as all that. I’m not an ogre.” Yvonne
was laughing too, but her dark eyes, that had been shining, were opaque
and withdrawn.

“But what if Geoff hates farms? Perhaps the mere sight of a cow makes
him seasick.”

“Oh no. We often used to talk about having a farm in the old days.”

“Do you _know_ anything about farming?”

“No.” Yvonne abruptly, delightfully, dismissed the possibility, leaning
forward and stroking her mare’s neck. “But I wondered if we mightn’t get
some couple who’d lost their own farm or something actually to run it
for us and live on it.”

“I wouldn’t have thought it exactly a good point in history to begin to
prosper as the landed gentry, but still maybe it is. Where’s this farm
to be?”

“Well . . . What’s to stop us going to Canada, for instance?”

“. . . _Canada?_ . . . Are you serious? Well, why not, but—”

“Perfectly.”

They had now reached the place where the railway took its wide leftward
curve and they descended the embankment. The grove had dropped behind
but there was still thick woodland to their right (above the centre of
which had appeared again the almost friendly landmark of the prison
watchtower) and stretching far ahead. A road showed briefly along the
margin of the woods. They approached this road slowly, following the
single-minded thrumming telegraph poles and picking a difficult course
through the scrub.

“I mean why Canada more than British Honduras? Or even Tristan da Cunha?
A little lonely perhaps, though an admirable place for one’s teeth, I’ve
heard. Then there’s Gough Island, hard by Tristan. That’s uninhabited.
Still, you might colonize it. Or Sokotra, where the frankincense and
myrrh used to come from and the camels climb like chamois—my favorite
island in the Arabian Sea.” But Hugh’s tone though amused was not
altogether sceptical as he touched on these fantasies, half to himself,
for Yvonne rode a little in front; it was as if he were after all
seriously grappling with the problem of Canada while at the same time
making an effort to pass off the situation as possessing any number of
adventurous whimsical solutions. He caught up with her.

“Hasn’t Geoffrey mentioned his genteel Siberia to you lately?” she said.
“You surely haven’t forgotten he owns an island in British Columbia?”

“On a lake, isn’t it? Pineaus Lake. I remember. But there isn’t any
house on it, is there? And you can’t graze cattle on fircones and
hardpan.”

“That’s not the point, Hugh.”

“Or would you propose to camp on it and have your farm elsewhere?”

“Hugh, listen—”

“But suppose you could only buy your farm in some place like
Saskatchewan,” Hugh objected. An idiotic verse came into his head,
keeping time with the horse’s hooves:

               _Oh take me back to Poor Fish River,_
               _Take me back to Onion Lake,_
               _You can keep the Guadalquivir,_
               _Como you may likewise take._
               _Take me back to dear old Horsefly,_
               _Aneroid or Gravelburg . . ._

“In some place with a name like Product. Or even Dumble,” he went on.
“There must be a Dumble. In fact I know there’s a Dumble.”

“All right. Maybe it _is_ ridiculous. But at least it’s better than
sitting here doing nothing!” Almost crying, Yvonne angrily urged her
horse into a brief wild canter, but the terrain was too rough; Hugh
reined in beside her and they halted together.

“I’m awfully, dreadfully sorry.” Contrite, he took her bridle. “I was
just being more than unusually bloody stupid.”

“Then you _do_ think it’s a good idea?” Yvonne brightened slightly, even
contriving again an air of mockery.

“Have you ever been to Canada?” he asked her.

“I’ve been to Niagara Falls.”

They rode on, Hugh still holding her bridle. “I’ve never been to Canada
at all. But a Canuck in Spain, a fisherman pal of mine with the
Macs-Paps, used to keep telling me it was the most terrific place in the
world. British Columbia, at any rate.”

“That’s what Geoffrey used to say too.”

“Well, Geoff’s liable to be vague on the subject. But here’s what McGoff
told me. This man was a Pict. Suppose you land in Vancouver, as seems
reasonable. So far not so good. McGoff didn’t have much use for modern
Vancouver. According to him it has a sort of Pango Pango quality mingled
with sausage and mash and generally a rather Puritan atmosphere.
Everyone fast asleep and when you prick them a Union Jack flows out of
the hole. But no one in a certain sense lives there. They merely as it
were pass through. Mine the country and quit. Blast the land to pieces,
knock down the trees and send them rolling down Burrard Inlet . . . As
for drinking, by the way, that is beset,” Hugh chuckled, “everywhere
beset by perhaps favourable difficulties. No bars, only beer parlors so
uncomfortable and cold that serve beer so weak no self-respecting
drunkard would show his nose in them. You have to drink at home, and
when you run short it’s too far to get a bottle—”

“But—” They were both laughing.

“But wait a minute.” Hugh looked up at the sky of New Spain. It was a
day like a good Joe Venuti record. He listened to the faint steady
droning of the telegraph poles and the wires above them that sang in his
heart with his pint-and-a-half of beer. At this moment the best and
easiest and most simple thing in the world seemed to be the happiness of
these two people in a new country. And what counted seemed probably the
swiftness with which they moved. He thought of the Ebro. Just as a
long-planned offensive might be defeated in its first few days by
unconsidered potentialities that have now been given time to mature, so
a sudden desperate move might succeed precisely because of the number of
potentialities it destroys at one fell swoop . . .

“The thing to do,” he went on, “is to get out of Vancouver as fast as
possible. Go down one of the inlets to some fishing village and buy a
shack slap spang on the sea, with only foreshore rights, for, say a
hundred dollars. Then live on it this winter for about sixty a month. No
phone. No rent. No consulate. Be a squatter. Call on your pioneer
ancestors. Water from the well. Chop your own wood. After all, Geoff’s
as strong as a horse. And perhaps he’ll be able really to get down to
his book and you can have your stars and the sense of the seasons again;
though you can sometimes swim late as November. And get to know the real
people: the seine fishermen, the old boatbuilders, the trappers,
according to McGoff the last truly free people left in the world.
Meantime you can get your island fixed up and find out about your farm,
which previously you’ll have used as a decoy for all you’re worth, if
you still want it by then—”

“Oh Hugh, _yes_—”

He all but shook her horse with enthusiasm. “I can see your shack now.
It’s between the forest and the sea and you’ve got a pier going down to
the water over rough stones, you know, covered with barnacles and sea
anemones and starfish. You’ll have to go through the woods to the
store.” Hugh saw the store in his mind’s eye. _The woods will be wet.
And occasionally a tree will come crashing down. And sometimes there
will be a fog and that fog will freeze. Then your whole forest will
become a crystal forest. The ice crystals on the twigs will grow like
leaves. Then pretty soon you’ll be seeing the jack-in-the-pulpits and
then it will be spring._

They were galloping . . . Bare level plain had taken the place of the
scrub and they’d been cantering briskly, the foals prancing delightedly
ahead, when suddenly the dog was a shoulder-shrugging streaking fleece,
and as their mares almost imperceptibly fell into the long untrammelled
undulating strides, Hugh felt the sense of change, the keen elemental
pleasure one experienced too on board a ship which, leaving the choppy
waters of the estuary, gives way to the pitch and swing of the open sea.
A faint carillon of bells sounded in the distance, rising and falling,
sinking back as if into the very substance of the day. Judas had
forgotten; nay, Judas had been, somehow, redeemed.

They were galloping parallel to the road which was hedgeless and on
ground level, then the thudding regular thunder of the hooves struck
abruptly hard and metallic and dispersed and they were clattering on the
road itself: it bore away to the right skirting the woods round a sort
of headland jutting into the plain.

“We’re on the Calle Nicaragua again,” Yvonne shouted gaily, “almost!”

At a full gallop they were approaching the Malebolge once more, the
serpentine barranca, though at a point much further up than where they’d
first crossed it; they were trotting side by side over a white-fenced
bridge: then, all at once, they were in the ruin. Yvonne was in it
first, the animals seeming to be checked less by the reins than by their
own decision, possibly nostalgic, possibly even considerate, to halt.
They dismounted. The ruin occupied a considerable stretch of the grassy
roadside on their right hand. Near them was what might once have been a
chapel, with grass on which the dew still sparkled growing through the
floor. Elsewhere were the remains of a wide stone porch with low
crumbled balustrades. Hugh, who had quite lost his bearings, secured
their mares to a broken pink pillar that stood apart from the rest of
the desuetude, a meaningless mouldering emblem.

“What is all this ex-splendour anyway?” he said.

“Maximilian’s Palace. The summer one, I think. I believe all that grove
effect by the brewery was once part of his grounds too.” Yvonne looked
suddenly ill at ease.

“Don’t you want to stop here?” he had asked her.

“Sure. It’s a good idea. I’d like a cigarette,” she said hesitantly.
“But we’ll have to stroll down a ways for Carlotta’s favorite view.”

“The emperor’s mirador certainly has seen better days.” Hugh, rolling
Yvonne a cigarette, glanced absently round the place, which appeared so
reconciled to its own ruin no sadness touched it; birds perched on the
blasted towers and dilapidated masonry over which clambered the
inevitable blue convolvulus; the foals with their guardian dog resting
near were meekly grazing in the chapel: it seemed safe to leave them
. . .

“Maximilian and Carlotta, eh?” Hugh was saying. “Should Juarez have had
the man shot or not?”

“It’s an awfully tragic story.”

“He should have had old thingmetight, Díaz, shot at the same time and
made a job of it.”

They came to the headland and stood gazing back the way they had come,
over the plains, the scrub, the railway, the Tomalín road. It was
blowing here, a dry steady wind. Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl. There
they lay peacefully enough beyond the valley; the firing had ceased.
Hugh felt a pang. On the way down he’d entertained a quite serious
notion of finding time to climb Popo, perhaps even with Juan Cerillo—

“There’s your moon for you still,” he pointed it out again, a fragment
blown out of the night by a cosmic storm.

“Weren’t those wonderful names,” she said, “the old astronomers gave the
places on the moon?”

“The Marsh of Corruption. That’s the only one I can remember.”

“Sea of Darkness . . . Sea of Tranquillity . . .”

They stood side by side without speaking, the wind tearing cigarette
smoke over their shoulders; from here the valley too resembled a sea, a
galloping sea. Beyond the Tomalín road the country rolled and broke its
barbarous waves of dunes and rocks in every direction. Above the
foothills, spiked along their rims with firs, like broken bottles
guarding a wall, a white onrush of clouds might have been poised
breakers. But behind the volcanoes themselves he saw now that storm
clouds were gathering. “Sokotra,” he thought, “my mysterious island in
the Arabian Sea, where the frankincense and myrrh used to come from, and
no one has ever been—”

There was something in the wild strength of this landscape, once a
battlefield, that seemed to be shouting at him, a presence born of that
strength whose cry his whole being recognised as familiar, caught and
threw back into the wind, some youthful password of courage and
pride—the passionate, yet so nearly always hypocritical, affirmation of
one’s soul perhaps, he thought, of the desire to be, to do, good, what
was right. It was as though he were gazing now beyond this expanse of
plains and beyond the volcanoes out to the wide rolling blue ocean
itself, feeling it in his heart still, the boundless impatience, the
immeasurable longing.




                                   V


_BEHIND them walked the only living thing that shared their pilgrimage,
the dog. And by degrees they reached the briny sea. Then, with souls
well disciplined they reached the northern region, and beheld, with
heaven aspiring hearts, the mighty mountain Himavat . . . Whereupon the
lake was lapping, the lilacs were blowing, the chenars were budding, the
mountains were glistening, the waterfalls were playing, the spring was
green, the snow was white, the sky was blue, the fruit blossoms were
clouds: and he was still thirsty. Then the snow was not glistening, the
fruit blossoms were not clouds, they were mosquitoes, the Himalayas were
hidden by dust, and he was thirstier than ever. Then the lake was
blowing, the snow was blowing, the waterfalls were blowing, the fruit
blossoms were blowing, the seasons were blowing—blowing away—he was
blowing away himself, whirled by a storm of blossoms into the mountains,
where now the rain was falling. But this rain, that fell only on the
mountains, did not assuage his thirst. Nor was he after all in the
mountains. He was standing, among cattle, in a stream. He was resting,
with some ponies, knee-deep beside him in the cool marshes. He was lying
face downward drinking from a lake that reflected the white-capped
ranges, the clouds piled five miles high behind the mighty mountain
Himavat, the purple chenars and a village nestling among the mulberries.
Yet his thirst still remained unquenched. Perhaps because he was
drinking, not water, but lightness, and promise of lightness—how could
he be drinking promise of lightness? Perhaps because he was drinking,
not water, but certainty of brightness—how could he be drinking
certainty of brightness? Certainty of brightness, promise of lightness,
of light, light, light, and again, of light, light, light, light,
light!_

. . . The Consul, an inconceivable anguish of horripilating hangover
thunderclapping about his skull, and accompanied by a protective screen
of demons gnattering in his ears, became aware that in the horrid event
of his being observed by his neighbours it could hardly be supposed he
was just sauntering down his garden with some innocent horticultural
object in view. Nor even that he was sauntering. The Consul, who had
waked a moment or two ago on the porch and remembered everything
immediately, was almost running. He was also lurching. In vain he tried
to check himself, plunging his hands, with an extraordinary attempt at
nonchalance, in which he hoped might appear more than a hint of consular
majesty, deeper into the sweat-soaked pockets of his dress trousers. And
now, rheumatisms discarded, he really was running . . . Might he not,
then, be reasonably suspected of a more dramatic purpose, of having
assumed, for instance, the impatient buskin of a William Blackstone
leaving the Puritans to dwell among the Indians, or the desperate mien
of his friend Wilson when he so magnificently abandoned the University
Expedition to disappear, likewise in a pair of dress trousers, into the
jungles of darkest Oceania, never to return? Not very reasonably. For
one thing, if he continued much further in this present direction toward
the bottom of his garden any such visioned escape into the unknown must
shortly be arrested by what was, for him, an unscalable wire fence. “Do
not be so foolish as to imagine you have no object, however. We warned
you, we told you so, but now that in spite of all our pleas you have got
yourself into this deplorable—” He recognized the tone of one of his
familiars, faint among the other voices as he crashed on through the
metamorphoses of dying and reborn hallucinations, like a man who does
not know he has been shot from behind. “—condition,” the voice went on
severely, “you have to do something about it. Therefore we are leading
you toward the accomplishment of this something.” “I’m not going to
drink,” the Consul said, halting suddenly. “Or am I? Not mescal anyway.”
“Of course not, the bottle’s just there, behind that bush. Pick it up.”
“I can’t,” he objected—“That’s right, just take one drink, just the
necessary, the therapeutic drink: perhaps two drinks.” “God,” the Consul
said. “Ah. Good. God. Christ.” “Then you can say it doesn’t count.” “It
doesn’t. It isn’t mescal.” “Of course not, it’s tequila. You might have
another.” “Thanks, I will.” The Consul palsiedly readjusted the bottle
to his lips. “Bliss. Jesus. Sanctuary . . . Horror,” he added. “—Stop.
Put that bottle down, Geoffrey Firmin, what are you doing to yourself?”
another voice said in his ear so loudly he turned round. On the path
before him a little snake he had thought a twig was rustling off into
the bushes and he watched it a moment through his dark glasses,
fascinated. It was a real snake all right. Not that he was much bothered
by anything so simple as snakes, he reflected with a degree of pride,
gazing straight into the eyes of a dog. It was a pariah dog and
disturbingly familiar. “Perro,” he repeated, as it still stood
there—but had not this incident occurred, was it not now, as it were,
occurring an hour or two ago, he thought in a flash. Strange. He dropped
the bottle which was of white corrugated glass—Tequila Añejo de
Jalisco, it said on the label—out of sight into the undergrowth,
looking about him. All seemed normal again. Anyway, both snake and dog
had gone. And the voices had ceased . . .

The Consul now felt himself in a position to entertain, for a minute,
the illusion that all really was “normal.” Yvonne would probably be
asleep: no point in disturbing her yet. And it was fortunate he’d
remembered about the almost full tequila bottle: now he had a chance to
straighten up a little, which he never could have done on the porch,
before greeting her again. There was altogether too much difficulty
involved, under the circumstances, in drinking on the porch; it was a
good thing a man knew where to have a quiet drink when he wanted it,
without being disturbed etc. etc. . . . All these thoughts were passing
through his mind—which, so to say, nodding gravely, accepted them with
the most complete seriousness—while he gazed back up his garden. Oddly
enough, it did not strike him as being nearly so “ruined” as it had
earlier appeared. Such chaos as might exist even lent an added charm. He
liked the exuberance of the unclipped growth at hand. Whereas further
away, the superb plantains flowering so finally and obscenely, the
splendid trumpet vines, brave and stubborn pear trees, the papayas
planted around the swimming pool and beyond, the low white bungalow
itself covered by bougainvillea, its long porch like the bridge of a
ship, positively made a little vision of order, a vision, however, which
inadvertently blended at this moment, as he turned by accident, into a
strangely subaqueous view of the plains and the volcanoes with a huge
indigo sun multitudinously blazing south southeast. Or was it north
northwest? He noted it all without sorrow, even with a certain ecstasy,
lighting a cigarette, an Alas (though he repeated the word “Alas” aloud
mechanically) then, the alcohol sweat pouring off his brows like water,
he began to walk down the path toward the fence separating his garden
from the little new public one beyond that truncated his property.

In this garden, which he hadn’t looked at since the day Hugh arrived,
when he’d hidden the bottle, and which seemed carefully and lovingly
kept, there existed at the moment certain evidence of work left
uncompleted: tools, unusual tools, a murderous machete, an oddly shaped
fork, somehow nakedly impaling the mind, with its twisted tines
glittering in the sunlight, were leaning against the fence, as also was
something else, a sign uprooted or new, whose oblong pallid face stared
through the wire at him. ¿Le gusta este jardín? it asked . . .

                         ¿LE GUSTA ESTE JARDÍN?
                             ¿QUE ES SUYO?
                   ¡EVITE QUE SUS HIJOS LO DESTRUYAN!

The Consul stared back at the black words on the sign without moving.
You like this garden? Why is it yours? We evict those who destroy!
Simple words, simple and terrible words, words which one took to the
very bottom of one’s being, words which, perhaps a final judgement on
one, were nevertheless unproductive of any emotion whatsoever, unless a
kind of colourless, cold, a white agony, an agony chill as that iced
mescal drunk in the Hotel Canada on the morning of Yvonne’s departure.

However he was drinking tequila again now—and with no very clear idea
how he’d returned so quickly and found the bottle. Ah, the subtle
bouquet of pitch and teredos! Careless of being observed this time, he
drank long and deeply, then stood—and he had been observed too, by his
neighbor Mr. Quincey, who was watering flowers in the shade of their
common fence to the left beyond the briars—stood facing his bungalow
once more. He felt hemmed in. Gone was the little dishonest vision of
order. Over his house, above the spectres of neglect that now refused to
disguise themselves, the tragic wings of untenable responsibilities
hovered. Behind him, in the other garden, his fate repeated softly: “Why
is it yours? . . . Do you like this garden? . . . We evict those who
destroy!” Perhaps the sign didn’t mean quite that—for alcohol sometimes
affected the Consul’s Spanish adversely (or perhaps the sign itself,
inscribed by some Aztec, was wrong)—but it was near enough. Coming to
an abrupt decision he dropped the tequila into the undergrowth again and
turned back toward the public garden, walking with an attempted “easy”
stride.

Not that he had any intention of “verifying” the words on the sign,
which certainly seemed to have more question marks than it should have;
no, what he wanted, he now saw very clearly, was to talk to someone:
that was necessary: but it was more, merely, than that; what he wanted
involved something like the grasping, at this moment, of a brilliant
opportunity, or more accurately, of an opportunity to be brilliant, an
opportunity evinced by that apparition of Mr. Quincey through the briars
which, now upon his right, he must circumvent in order to reach him. Yet
this opportunity to be brilliant was, in turn, more like something else,
an opportunity to be admired; even, and he could at least thank the
tequila for such honesty, however brief its duration, to be loved. Loved
precisely for what was another question: since he’d put it to himself he
might answer: loved for my reckless and irresponsible appearance, or
rather for the fact that, beneath that appearance, so obviously burns
the fire of genius, which, not so obviously, is not my genius but in an
extraordinary manner that of my old and good friend, Abraham Taskerson,
the great poet, who once spoke so glowingly of my potentialities as a
young man.

And what he wanted then, ah then (he had turned right without looking at
the sign and was following the path along the wire fence), what he
wanted then, he thought, casting one yearning glance at the plains—and
at this moment he could have sworn that a figure, the details of whose
dress he did not have time to make out before it departed, but
apparently in some kind of mourning, had been standing, head bowed in
deepest anguish, near the centre of the public garden—what you want
then, Geoffrey Firmin, if only as an antidote against such routine
hallucinations, is, why it is, nothing less than to drink; to drink,
indeed, all day, just as the clouds once more bid you, and yet not
quite; again it is more subtle than this; you do not wish merely to
drink, but to drink in a particular place and in a particular town.

Parián! . . . It was a name suggestive of old marble and the gale-swept
Cyclades. The Farolito in Parián, how it called to him with its gloomy
voices of the night and early dawn. But the Consul (he had inclined
right again leaving the wire fence behind) realised he wasn’t yet drunk
enough to be very sanguine about his chances of going there; the day
offered too many immediate—pitfalls! It was the exact word . . . He had
almost fallen into the barranca, an unguarded section of whose hither
bank—the ravine curved sharply down here toward the Alcapancingo road
to curve again below and follow its direction, bisecting the public
garden—added at this juncture a tiny fifth side to his estate. He
paused, peeping, tequila-unafraid, over the bank. Ah the frightful
cleft, the eternal horror of opposites! Thou mighty gulf, insatiate
cormorant, deride me not, though I seem petulant to fall into thy chops.
One was, come to that, always stumbling upon the damned thing, this
immense intricate donga cutting right through the town, right, indeed,
through the country, in places a two-hundred-foot sheer drop into what
pretended to be a churlish river during the rainy season, but which,
even now, though one couldn’t see the bottom, was probably beginning to
resume its normal rôle of general Tartarus and gigantic jakes. It was,
perhaps, not so frightening here: one might even climb down, if one
wished, by easy stages of course, and taking the occasional swig of
tequila on the way, to visit the cloacal Prometheus who doubtless
inhabited it. The Consul walked on more slowly. He had come face to face
with his house again and simultaneously to the path skirting Mr.
Quincey’s garden. On his left beyond their common fence, now at hand,
the green lawns of the American, at the moment being sprinkled by
innumerable small whizzing hoses, swept down parallel with his own
briars. Nor could any English turf have appeared smoother or lovelier.
Suddenly overwhelmed by sentiment, as at the same time by a violent
attack of hiccups, the Consul stepped behind a gnarled fruit tree rooted
on his side but spreading its remnant of shade over the other, and
leaned against it, holding his breath. In this curious way he imagined
himself hidden from Mr. Quincey, working further up, but he soon forgot
all about Quincey in spasmodic admiration of his garden . . . Would it
happen at the end, and would this save one, that old Popeye would begin
to seem less desirable than a slag-heap in Chester-le-Street, and that
mighty Johnsonian prospect, the road to England, would stretch out again
in the Western Ocean of his soul? And how peculiar that would be! How
strange the landing at Liverpool, the Liver Building seen once more
through the misty rain, that murk smelling already of nosebags and
Caegwyrle Ale—the familiar deep-draughted cargo steamers, harmoniously
masted, still sternly sailing outward bound with the tide, worlds of
iron hiding their crews from the weeping black-shawled women on the
piers: Liverpool, whence sailed so often during the war under sealed
orders those mysterious submarine catchers Q-boats, fake freighters
turning into turreted men-of-war at a moment’s notice, obsolete peril of
submarines, the snouted voyagers of the sea’s unconscious . . .

“Dr. Livingstone, I presume.”

“Hicket,” said the Consul, taken aback by the premature rediscovery, at
such close quarters, of the tall slightly stooping figure, in khaki
shirt and grey flannel trousers, sandalled, immaculate, grey-haired,
complete, fit, a credit to Soda Springs, and carrying a watering-can,
who was regarding him distastefully through horn-rimmed spectacles from
the other side of the fence. “Ah, good morning, Quincey.”

“What’s good about it?” The retired walnut grower asked suspiciously,
continuing his work of watering his flower beds, which were out of range
of the ceaselessly swinging hoses.

The Consul gestured toward his briars, and perhaps unconsciously also in
the direction of the tequila bottle. “I saw you from over there . . . I
was just out inspecting my jungle, don’t you know.”

“You are doing _what_?” Mr. Quincey glanced at him over the top of the
watering-can as if to say: I have seen all this going on; I know all
about it because I am God, and even when God was much older than you are
he was nevertheless up at this time and fighting it, if necessary, while
you don’t even know whether you’re up or not yet, and even if you have
been out all night you are certainly not fighting it, as I would be,
just as I would be ready to fight anything or anybody else too, for that
matter, at the drop of a hat!

“And I’m afraid it really is a jungle too,” pursued the Consul; “in fact
I expect Rousseau to come riding out of it at any moment on a tiger.”

“What’s that?” Mr. Quincey said, frowning in a manner that might have
meant: And God never drinks before breakfast either.

“On a tiger,” the Consul repeated.

The other gazed at him a moment with the cold sardonic eye of the
material world. “I expect so,” he said sourly. “Plenty tigers. Plenty
elephants too . . . Might I ask you if the next time you inspect your
jungle you’d mind being sick on your own side of the fence?”

“Hicket,” answered the Consul simply. “Hicket,” he snarled, laughing,
and, trying to take himself by surprise, he thwacked himself hard in the
kidneys, a remedy which, strangely, seemed to work. “Sorry I gave that
impression, it was merely this damned hiccups!—”

“So I observe,” Mr. Quincey said, and perhaps he too had cast a subtle
glance toward the ambush of the tequila bottle.

“And the funny thing is,” interrupted the Consul, “I scarcely touched
anything more than Tehuacan water all night . . . By the way; how did
you manage to survive the ball?”

Mr. Quincey stared at him evenly, then began to refill his watering-can
from a hydrant nearby.

“Just Tehuacan,” the Consul continued. “And a little gaseosa. That ought
to take you back to dear old Soda Springs, eh?—tee hee!—yes, I’ve cut
liquor right out these days.”

The other resumed his watering, sternly moving on down the fence, and
the Consul, not sorry to leave the fruit tree, to which he had noticed
clinging the sinister carapace of a seven-year locust, followed him step
by step.

“Yes, I’m on the wagon now,” he commented, “in case you didn’t know.”

“The funeral wagon, I’d say, Firmin,” Mr. Quincey muttered testily.

“By the way, I saw one of those little garter snakes just a moment ago,”
the Consul broke out.

Mr. Quincey coughed or snorted but said nothing.

“And it made me think . . . Do you know, Quincey, I’ve often wondered
whether there isn’t more in the old legend of the Garden of Eden, and so
on, than meets the eye. What if Adam wasn’t really banished from the
place at all? That is, in the sense we used to understand it—” The
walnut grower had looked up and was fixing him with a steady gaze that
seemed, however, directed at a point rather below the Consul’s
midriff—“What if his punishment really consisted,” the Consul continued
with warmth, “in his having to _go on living there_, alone, of
course—suffering, unseen, cut off from God . . . Or perhaps,” he added,
in more cheerful vein, “perhaps Adam was the first property owner and
God, the first agrarian, a kind of Cárdenas, in fact—tee hee!—kicked
him out. Eh? Yes,” the Consul chuckled, aware, moreover, that all this
was possibly not so amusing under the existing historical circumstances,
“for it’s obvious to everyone these days—don’t you think so,
Quincey?—that the original sin was to be an owner of property . . .”

The walnut grower was nodding at him, almost imperceptibly, but not it
seemed in any agreement; his realpolitik eye was still concentrated upon
that same spot below his midriff and looking down the Consul discovered
his open fly. Licentia vatum indeed! “Pardon me. J’adoube,” he said, and
making the adjustment continued, laughing, returning to his first theme
mysteriously unabashed by his recusancy. “Yes indeed. Yes . . . And of
course the real _reason_ for that punishment—his being forced to go on
living in the garden, I mean, might well have been that the poor fellow,
who knows, secretly loathed the place! Simply hated it, and had done so
all along. _And that the Old Man found this out_—”

“Was it my imagination, or did I see your wife up there a while ago?”
patiently said Mr. Quincey.

“—and no wonder! To hell with the place! Just think of all the
scorpions and leafcutter ants—to mention only a few of the abominations
he must have had to put up with! What?” the Consul exclaimed as the
other repeated his question. “In the garden? Yes—that is, no. How do
you know? No, she’s asleep as far as I—”

“Been away quite a time, hasn’t she?” the other asked mildly, leaning
forward so that he could see, more clearly, the Consul’s bungalow. “Your
brother still here?”

“Brother? Oh, you mean Hugh . . . No, he’s in Mexico City.”

“I think you’ll find he’s got back.”

The Consul now glanced up at the house himself. “Hicket,” he said
briefly, apprehensively.

“I think he went out with your wife,” the walnut grower added.

“—Hullo-hullo-look-who-comes-hullo-my-little-snake-in-the-grass
-my-little-anguish-in-herba—” the Consul at this moment greeted Mr.
Quincey’s cat, momentarily forgetting its owner again as the grey,
meditative animal, with a tail so long it trailed on the ground, came
stalking through the zinnias: he stooped, patting his
thighs—“hello-pussy-my-little-Priapusspuss,
my-little-Oedipusspusspuss,” and the cat, recognizing a friend and
uttering a cry of pleasure, wound through the fence and rubbed against
the Consul’s legs, purring. “My little Xicotancatl.” The Consul stood
up. He gave two short whistles while below him the cat’s ears twirled.
“She thinks I’m a tree with a bird in it,” he added.

“I wouldn’t wonder,” retorted Mr. Quincey, who was refilling his
watering-can at the hydrant.

“Animals not fit for food and kept only for pleasure, curiosity, or
whim—eh?—as William Blackstone said—you’ve heard of him of course!—”
The Consul was somehow on his haunches half talking to the cat, half to
the walnut grower, who had paused to light a cigarette. “Or was that
another William Blackstone?” He addressed himself now directly to Mr.
Quincey, who was paying no attention. “He’s a character I’ve always
liked. I think it was William Blackstone. Or so Abraham . . . Anyway,
one day he arrived in what is now, I believe—no matter—somewhere in
Massachusetts. And lived there quietly among the Indians. After a while
the Puritans settled on the other side of the river. They invited him
over; they said it was healthier on that side, you see. Ah, these
people, these fellows with ideas,” he told the cat, “old William didn’t
like them—no he didn’t—so he went back to live among the Indians, so
he did. But the Puritans found him out, Quincey, trust them. Then he
disappeared altogether—God knows where . . . _Now_, little cat,” the
Consul tapped his chest indicatively, and the cat, its face swelling,
body arched, important, stepped back, “the Indians are in here.”

“They sure are,” sighed Mr. Quincey, somewhat in the manner of a quietly
exacerbated sergeant-major, “along with all those snakes and pink
elephants and them tigers you were talking about.”

The Consul laughed, his laughter having a humourless sound, as though
the part of his mind that knew all this essentially a burlesque of a
great and generous man once his friend knew also how hollow the
satisfaction afforded him by the performance. “Not real Indians . . .
And I didn’t mean in the garden; but in _here_.” He tapped his chest
again. “Yes, just the final frontier of consciousness, that’s all.
Genius, as I’m so fond of saying,” he added, standing up, adjusting his
tie and (he did not think further of the tie) squaring his shoulders as
if to go with a decisiveness that, also borrowed on this occasion from
the same source as the genius and his interest in cats, left him
abruptly as it had been assumed. “—Genius will look after itself.”

Somewhere in the distance a clock was striking; the Consul still stood
there motionless. “Oh Yvonne, can I have forgotten you already, on this
of all days?” Nineteen, twenty, twenty-one strokes. By his watch it was
a quarter to eleven. But the clock hadn’t finished: it struck twice
more, two wry, tragic notes: _bing-bong_: whirring. The emptiness in the
air after filled with whispers: _alas_, _alas_. Wings, it really meant.

“Where’s your friend these days—I never can remember his name—that
French fellow?” Mr. Quincey had asked a moment ago.

“Laruelle?” The Consul’s voice came from far away. He was aware of
vertigo; closing his eyes wearily he took hold of the fence to steady
himself. Mr. Quincey’s words knocked on his consciousness—or someone
actually was knocking on a door—fell away, then knocked again, louder.
Old De Quincey; the knocking on the gate in Macbeth. Knock knock: who’s
there? Cat. Cat who? Catastrophe. Catastrophe who? Catastrophysicist.
What, is it you, my little popo-cat? Just wait an eternity till Jacques
and I have finished murdering sleep! Katabasis to cat abysses. Cathartes
atratus . . . Of course, he should have known it, these were the final
moments of the retiring of the human heart, and of the final entrance of
the fiendish, the night insulated—just as the real De Quincey (that
mere drug fiend, he thought opening his eyes—he found he was looking
straight over towards the tequila bottle) imagined the murder of Duncan
and the others insulated, self-withdrawn into a deep syncope and
suspension of earthly passion . . . But where had Quincey gone? And my
God, who was this advancing behind the morning paper to his rescue
across the lawn, where the breath of the hoses had suddenly failed as if
by magic, if not Dr. Guzmán?

If not Guzmán, if not, it could not be, but it was, it certainly was no
less a figure than that of his companion the night before, Dr. Vigil;
and what on earth would he be doing here? As the figure approached
closer the Consul felt an increasing uneasiness. Quincey was his patient
doubtless. But in that case why wasn’t the doctor in the house? Why all
this secretive prowling about the garden? It could only mean one thing:
Vigil’s visit had somehow been timed to coincide with his own probable
visit to the tequila (though he had fooled them neatly there), with the
object, naturally, of spying upon him, of obtaining some information
about him, some clue to the nature of which might all too conceivably be
found within the pages of that accusing newspaper: “Old Samaritan case
to be reopened, Commander Firmin believed in Mexico.” “Firmin found
guilty, acquitted, cries in box.” “Firmin innocent, but bears guilt of
world on shoulders.” “Body of Firmin found drunk in bunker,” such
monstrous headlines as these indeed took instant shape in the Consul’s
mind, for it was not merely _El Universal_ the doctor was reading, it
was his fate; but the creatures of his more immediate conscience were
not to be denied, they seemed silently to accompany that morning paper
too, withdrawing to one side (as the doctor came to a standstill,
looking about him) with averted heads, listening, murmuring now: “You
cannot lie to us. We know what you did last night.” What _had_ he done
though? He saw again clearly enough—as Dr. Vigil, recognizing him with
a smile, closed his paper and hastened toward him—the doctor’s
consulting room in the Avenida de la Revolución, visited for some
drunken reason in the early hours of the morning, macabre with its
pictures of ancient Spanish surgeons, their goat faces rising queerly
from ruffs resembling ectoplasm, roaring with laughter as they performed
inquisitorial operations; but since all this was retained as a mere
vivid setting completely detached from his own activity, and since it
was about all he did remember, he could scarcely take comfort from not
seeming to appear within it in any vicious rôle. Not so much comfort, at
least, as had just been afforded him by Vigil’s smile, nor half so much
as was now afforded him when the doctor, upon reaching the spot lately
vacated by the walnut grower, halted, and, suddenly, bowed to him
profoundly from the waist; bowed once, twice, thrice, mutely yet
tremendously assuring the Consul that after all no crime had been
committed during the night so great he was still not worthy of respect.

Then, simultaneously, the two men groaned.

“Qué t—” began the Consul.

“Por favor,” broke in the other hoarsely, placing a well-manicured
though shaky finger to his lips, and with a slightly worried look up the
garden.

The Consul nodded. “Of course. You’re looking so fit, I see you can’t
have been at the ball last night,” he added loudly and loyally,
following the other’s gaze, though Mr. Quincey, who after all could not
have been so fit, was still nowhere to be seen. He had probably been
turning off the hoses at the main hydrant—and how absurd to have
suspected a “plan” when it was so patently an informal call and the
doctor had just happened to notice Quincey working in the garden from
the drive. He lowered his voice. “All the same, might I take this
opportunity of asking you what you prescribe for a slight case of
katzenjammer?”

The doctor gave another worried look down the garden and began to laugh
quietly, though his whole body was shaking with mirth, his white teeth
flashed in the sun, even his immaculate blue suit seemed to be laughing.
“Señor,” he began, biting off his laughter short on his lips, like a
child, with his front teeth. “Señor Firmin, por favor, I am sorry, but I
must comport myself here like,” he looked round him again, catching his
breath, “like an apostle. You mean, Señor,” he went on more evenly,
“that you are feeling fine this morning, quite like the cat’s pyjamas.”

“Well: hardly,” said the Consul, softly as before, casting a suspicious
eye for his part in the other direction at some maguey growing beyond
the barranca, like a battalion moving up a slope under machine-gun fire.
“Perhaps that’s an overstatement. To put it more simply, what would you
do for a case of chronic, controlled, all-possessing and inescapable
delirium tremens?”

Doctor Vigil started. A half-playful smile hovered at the corner of his
lips as he contrived rather unsteadily to roll up his paper into a neat
cylindrical tube. “You mean, not cats—” he said, and he made a swift
rippling circular crawling gesture in front of his eyes with one hand,
“but rather—”

The Consul nodded cheerfully. For his mind was at rest. He had caught a
glimpse of those morning headlines, which seemed entirely concerned with
the Pope’s illness and the Battle of the Ebro.

“—progresión,” the doctor was repeating the gesture more slowly with
his eyes closed, his fingers crawling separately, curved like claws, his
head shaking idiotically. “—a _ra_tos!” he pounced. “Sí,” he said,
pursing his lips and clapping his hand to his forehead in a motion of
mock horror. “Sí,” he repeated. “Tereebly . . . More alcohol is perhaps
best,” he smiled.

“Your doctor tells me that in my case delirium tremens may not prove
fatal,” the Consul, triumphantly himself at last, informed Mr. Quincey,
who came up just at this moment.

And at the next moment, though not before there had passed between
himself and the doctor a barely perceptible exchange of signals, a tiny
symbolic mouthward flick of the wrist on the Consul’s side as he glanced
up at his bungalow, and upon Vigil’s a slight flapping movement of the
arms extended apparently in the act of stretching, which meant (in the
obscure language known only to major adepts in the Great Brotherhood of
Alcohol), “Come up and have a spot when you’ve finished.” “I shouldn’t,
for if I do I shall be ‘flying,’ but on second thoughts perhaps I
will,”—it seemed he was back drinking from his bottle of tequila. And,
the moment after, that he was drifting slowly and powerfully through the
sunlight back toward the bungalow itself. Accompanied by Mr. Quincey’s
cat, who was following an insect of some sort along his path, the Consul
floated in an amber glow. Beyond the house, where now the problems
awaiting him seemed already on the point of energetic solution, the day
before him stretched out like an illimitable rolling wonderful desert in
which one was going, though in a delightful way, to be lost: lost, but
not so completely he would be unable to find the few necessary
water-holes, or the scattered tequila oases where witty legionnaires of
damnation who couldn’t understand a word he said, would wave him on,
replenished, into that glorious Parián wilderness where man never went
thirsty, and where now he was drawn on beautifully by the dissolving
mirages past the skeletons like frozen wire and the wandering dreaming
lions towards ineluctable personal disaster, always in a delightful way
of course; the disaster might even be found at the end to contain a
certain element of triumph. Not that the Consul now felt gloomy. Quite
the contrary. The outlook had rarely seemed so bright. He became
conscious, for the first time, of the extraordinary activity which
everywhere surrounded him in his garden: a lizard going up a tree,
another kind of lizard coming down another tree, a bottle-green
hummingbird exploring a flower, another kind of hummingbird, voraciously
at another flower; huge butterflies, whose precise stitched markings
reminded one of the blouses in the market, flopping about with indolent
gymnastic grace (much as Yvonne had described them greeting her in
Acapulco Bay yesterday, a storm of torn-up multicolored love-letters,
tossing to windward past the saloons on the promenade deck); ants with
petals or scarlet blossoms tacking hither and thither along the paths;
while from above, below, from the sky, and, it might be, from under the
earth, came a continual sound of whistling, gnawing, rattling, even
trumpeting. Where was his friend the snake now? Hiding up a pear tree
probably. A snake that waited to drop rings on you: whore’s shoes. From
the branches of these pear trees hung carafes full of a glutinous yellow
substance for trapping insects still changed religiously every month by
the local horticultural college. (How gay were the Mexicans! The
horticulturists made the occasion, as they made every possible occasion,
a sort of dance, bringing their womenfolk with them, flitting from tree
to tree, gathering up and replacing the carafes as though the whole
thing were a movement in a comic ballet, afterwards lolling about in the
shade for hours, as if the Consul himself did not exist.) Then the
behaviour of Mr. Quincey’s cat began to fascinate him. The creature had
at last caught the insect but instead of devouring it, she was holding
its body, still uninjured, delicately between her teeth, while its
lovely luminous wings, still beating, for the insect had not stopped
flying an instant, protruded from either side of her whiskers, fanning
them. The Consul stooped forward to the rescue. But the animal bounded
just out of reach. He stooped again, with the same result. In this
preposterous fashion, the Consul stooping, the cat dancing just out of
reach, the insect still flying furiously in the cat’s mouth, he
approached his porch. Finally the cat extended a preparate paw for the
kill, opening her mouth, and the insect, whose wings had never ceased to
beat, suddenly and marvellously flew out, as might indeed the human soul
from the jaws of death, flew up, up, up, soaring over the trees: and at
that moment he saw them. They were standing on the porch; Yvonne’s arms
were full of bougainvillea, which she was arranging in a cobalt ceramic
vase. “—but suppose he’s absolutely adamant. Suppose he simply won’t go
. . . careful, Hugh, it’s got spikes on it, and you have to look at
everything carefully to be sure there’re no spiders.” “Hi there,
Suchiquetal!” the Consul shouted gaily, waving his hand, as the cat with
a frigid look over her shoulder that said plainly, “I didn’t want it
anyway; I meant to let it go,” galloped away, humiliated, into the
bushes. “Hi there, Hugh, you old snake in the grass!”

. . . Why then should he be sitting in the bathroom? Was he asleep?
dead? passed out? Was he in the bathroom now or half an hour ago? Was it
night? Where were the others? But now he heard some of the others’
voices on the porch. Some of the others? It was just Hugh and Yvonne, of
course, for the doctor had gone. Yet for a moment he could have sworn
the house had been full of people; why, it was still this morning, or
barely afternoon, only 12:15 in fact by his watch. At eleven he’d been
talking to Mr. Quincey. “Oh . . . Oh.” The Consul groaned aloud . . . It
came to him he was supposed to be getting ready to go to Tomalín. But
how had he managed to persuade anyone he was sober enough to go to
Tomalín? And why, anyhow, Tomalín?

A procession of thoughts like little elderly animals filed through the
Consul’s mind, and in his mind too he was steadily crossing the porch
again, as he had done an hour ago, immediately after he’d seen the
insect flying away out of the cat’s mouth.

He had crossed the porch—which Concepta had swept—smiling soberly to
Yvonne and shaking hands with Hugh on his way to the icebox, and
unfastening it, he knew not only that they’d been talking about him,
but, obscurely, from that bright fragment of overheard conversation, its
round meaning, just as had he at that moment glimpsed the new moon with
the old one in its arms, he might have been impressed by its complete
shape, though the rest were shadowy, illumined only by earthlight.

But what had happened then? “Oh,” the Consul cried aloud again. “Oh.”
The faces of the last hour hovered before him, the figures of Hugh and
Yvonne and Doctor Vigil moving quickly and jerkily now like those of an
old silent film, their words mute explosions in the brain. Nobody seemed
to be doing anything important; yet everything seemed of the utmost
hectic importance, for instance Yvonne saying: “We saw an
armadillo”:—“What, no Tarsius spectres!” he had replied, then Hugh
opening the freezing bottle of Carta Blanca beer for him, prizing off
the fizzing cap on the edge of the parapet and decanting the foam into
his glass, the contiguity of which to his strychnine bottle had, it must
be admitted now, lost most of its significance . . .

In the bathroom the Consul became aware he still had with him half a
glass of slightly flat beer; his hand was fairly steady, but numbed
holding the glass, he drank cautiously, carefully postponing the problem
soon to be raised by its emptiness.

—“Nonsense,” he said to Hugh. And he had added with impressive consular
authority that Hugh couldn’t leave immediately anyway, at least not for
Mexico City, that there was only one bus to-day, the one Hugh’d come on,
which had gone back to the City already, and one train that didn’t leave
till 11:45 P.M. . . .

Then: “But wasn’t it Bougainville, doctor,” Yvonne was asking—and it
really was astonishing how sinister and urgent and _inflamed_ all these
minutiae seemed to him in the bathroom—“Wasn’t it Bougainville who
discovered the bougainvillea?” while the doctor bending over her flowers
merely looked alert and puzzled, he said nothing save with his eyes
which perhaps barely betrayed that he’d stumbled on a “situation.”—“Now
I come to think of it, I believe it was Bougainville. Hence the name,”
Hugh observed fatuously, seating himself on the parapet—“Sí: you _can_
go to the botica and so not to be misunderstood, say favor de servir una
toma de vino quinado o en su defecto una toma de nuez vómica, pero—”
Dr. Vigil was chuckling, talking to Hugh it must have been, Yvonne
having slipped into her room a moment, while the Consul, eavesdropping,
was at the icebox for another bottle of beer—then; “Oh, I was so
terrible sick this morning I needed to be holding myself to the street
windows,” and to the Consul himself as he returned “—Please forgive my
stupid comport last night: oh, I have done a lot of stupid things
everywhere these last few days, but”—raising his glass of whiskey—“I
will never drink more; I will need two full days of sleeping to recover
myself”—and then, as Yvonne returned—magnificently giving the whole
show away, raising his glass to the Consul again: “Salud: I hope you are
not as sick as I am. You were so perfecta_men_te borracho last night I
think you must have killed yourself with drinking. I think even to send
a boy after you this morning to knock your door, and find if drinking
have not killed you already,” Dr. Vigil had said.

A strange fellow: in the bathroom the Consul sipped his flat beer. A
strange, decent, generous-hearted fellow, if slightly deficient in tact
save on his own behalf. Why couldn’t people hold their liquor? He
himself had still managed to be quite considerate of Vigil’s position in
Quincey’s garden. In the final analysis there was no one you could trust
to drink with you to the bottom of the bowl. A lonely thought. But of
the doctor’s generosity there was little doubt. Before long indeed, in
spite of the necessary “two full days of sleeping,” he had been inviting
them all to come with him to Guanajuato: recklessly he proposed leaving
for his holiday by car this evening, after a problematic set of tennis
this afternoon with—

The Consul took another sip of beer. “Oh,” he shuddered. “Oh.” It had
been a mild shock last night to discover that Vigil and Jacques Laruelle
were friends, far more than embarrassing to be reminded of it this
morning . . . Anyhow, Hugh had turned down the notion of the
two-hundred-mile trip to Guanajuato, since Hugh—and how amazingly well,
after all, those cowboy clothes seemed to suit his erect and careless
bearing!—was now determined to catch that night train; while the Consul
had declined on Yvonne’s account.

The Consul saw himself again, hovering over the parapet, gazing down at
the swimming pool below, a little turquoise set in the garden. Thou art
the grave where buried love doth live. The inverted reflections of
banana trees and birds, caravans of clouds, moved in it. Wisps of
new-mown turf floated on the surface. Fresh mountain water trickled into
the pool, which was almost overflowing, from the cracked broken hose
whose length was a series of small spouting fountains.

Then Yvonne and Hugh, below, were swimming in the pool . . .

—“Absolutamente,” the doctor had said, beside the Consul at the
parapet, and attentively lighting a cigarette. “I have,” the Consul was
telling him, lifting his face towards the volcanoes and feeling his
desolation go out to those heights where even now at mid-morning the
howling snow would whip the face, and the ground beneath the feet was
dead lava, a soulless petrified residue of extinct plasm in which even
the wildest and loneliest trees would never take root; “I have another
enemy round the back you can’t see. A sunflower. I know it watches me
and I know it hates me.” “Exactamente,” Dr. Vigil said, “very posseebly
it might be hating you a little less if you would stop from drinking
tequila.” “Yes, but I’m only drinking beer this morning,” the Consul
said with conviction, “as you can see for yourself.” “Sí, hombre,” Dr.
Vigil nodded, who after a few whiskies (from a new bottle) had given up
trying to conceal himself from Mr. Quincey’s house and was standing
boldly by the parapet with the Consul. “There are,” the Consul added, “a
thousand aspects of this infernal beauty I was talking about, each with
its peculiar tortures, each jealous as a woman of all stimulations save
its own.” “Naturalmente,” Dr. Vigil said. “But I think if you are very
serious about your progresión a ratos you may take a longer journey even
than this proposed one.” The Consul placed his glass on the parapet
while the doctor continued. “Me too unless we contain with ourselves
never to drink no more. I think, mi amigo, sickness is not only in body
but in that part used to be call: soul.” “Soul?” “Precisamente,” the
doctor said, swiftly clasping and unclasping his fingers. “But a mesh?
Mesh. The nerves are a mesh, like, how do you say it, an eclectic
systemë.” “Ah, very good,” the Consul said, “you mean an electric
system.” “But after much tequila the eclectic systemë is perhaps un poco
descompuesto, comprenez, as sometimes in the cine: claro?” “A sort of
eclampsia, as it were,” the Consul nodded desperately, removing his
glasses, and at this point, the Consul remembered, he had been without a
drink nearly ten minutes; the effect of the tequila too had almost gone.
He had peered out at the garden, and it was as though bits of his
eyelids had broken off and were flittering and jittering before him,
turning into nervous shapes and shadows, jumping to the guilty
chattering in his mind, not quite voices yet, but they were coming back,
they were coming back; a picture of his soul as a town appeared once
more before him, but this time a town ravaged and stricken in the black
path of his excess, and shutting his burning eyes he had thought of the
beautiful functioning of the system in those who were truly alive,
switches connected, nerves rigid only in real danger, and in
nightmareless sleep now calm, not resting, yet poised: a peaceful
village. Christ, how it heightened the torture (and meantime there had
been every reason to suppose the others imagined he was enjoying himself
enormously) to be aware of all this, while at the same time conscious,
of the whole horrible disintegrating mechanism, the light now on, now
off, now on too glaringly, now too dimly, with the glow of a fitful
dying battery—then at last to know the whole town plunged into
darkness, where communication is lost, motion mere obstruction, bombs
threaten, ideas stampede—

The Consul had now finished his glass of flat beer. He sat gazing at the
bathroom wall in an attitude like a grotesque parody of an old attitude
in meditation. “I am very much interested in insanes.” That was a
strange way to start a conversation with a fellow who’d just stood you a
drink. Yet that was precisely how the doctor, in the Bella Vista bar,
had started their conversation the previous night. Could it be Vigil
considered his practised eye had detected approaching insanity (and this
was funny too, recalling his thoughts on the subject earlier, to
conceive of it as merely approaching) as some who have watched wind and
weather all their lives can prophesy, under a fair sky, the approaching
storm, the darkness that will come galloping out of nowhere across the
fields of the mind. Not that there could be said to be a very fair sky
either in that connection. Yet how interested would the doctor have been
in one who felt himself being shattered by the very forces of the
universe? What cataplasms have laid on his soul? What did even the
hierophants of science know of the fearful potencies of, for them,
unvintageable evil? The Consul wouldn’t have needed a practised eye to
detect on this wall, or any other, a Mene-Tekel-Peres for the world,
compared to which mere insanity was a drop in the bucket. Yet who would
ever have believed that some obscure man, sitting at the centre of the
world in a bathroom, say, thinking solitary miserable thoughts, was
authoring their doom, that, even while he was thinking, it was as if
behind the scenes certain strings were pulled, and whole continents
burst into flame, and calamity moved nearer—just as now, at this moment
perhaps, with a sudden jolt and grind, calamity had moved nearer, and,
without the Consul’s knowing it, outside the sky had darkened. Or
perhaps it was not a man at all, but a child, a little child, innocent
as that other Geoffrey had been, who sat as up in an organ loft
somewhere playing, pulling out all the stops at random, and kingdoms
divided and fell, and abominations dropped from the sky—a child
innocent as that infant sleeping in the coffin which had slanted past
them down the Calle Tierra del Fuego . . .

The Consul lifted his glass to his lips, tasted its emptiness again,
then set it on the floor, still wet from the feet of the swimmers. The
uncontrollable mystery on the bathroom floor. He remembered that the
next time he had returned to the porch with a bottle of Carta Blanca,
though for some reason this now seemed a terribly long time ago, in the
past—it was as if something he could not put his finger on had
mysteriously supervened to separate drastically that returning figure
from himself sitting in the bathroom (the figure on the porch, for all
its damnation, seemed younger, to have more freedom of movement, choice,
to have, if only because it held a full glass of beer once more, a
better chance of a future)—Yvonne, youthful and pretty-looking in her
white satin bathing suit, had been wandering on tiptoe round the doctor,
who was saying:

“Señora Firmin, I am really disappoint though you cannot come me with.”

The Consul and she had exchanged a look of understanding, it almost
amounted to, then Yvonne was swimming again, below, and the doctor was
saying to the Consul:

“Guanajuato is sited in a beautiful circus of steepy hills.

“Guanajuato,” the doctor was saying, “you will not believe me, how she
can lie there, like the old golden jewel on the breast of our
grandmother.

“Guanajuato,” Dr. Vigil said, “the streets. How can you resist the names
of the streets? Street of Kisses. Street of Singing Frogs. The Street of
the Little Head. Is not that revolting?”

“Repellent,” the Consul said. “Isn’t Guanajuato the place they bury
everybody standing up?”—ah, and this was where he had remembered about
the bullthrowing and feeling a return of energy, had called down to
Hugh, who was sitting thoughtfully by the edge of the pool in the
Consul’s swimming trunks. “Tomalín’s quite near Parián, where your pal
was going,” he said. “We might even go on there.” And then to the
doctor. “Perhaps you might come too . . . I left my favourite pipe in
Parián. Which I might get back, with luck. In the Farolito.” And the
doctor had said: “Wheee, es un infierno,” while Yvonne, lifting up a
corner of her bathing cap to hear better, said meekly, “Not a
bullfight?” And the Consul: “No, a bullthrowing. If you’re not too
tired?”

But the doctor could not of course come to Tomalín with them, though
this was never discussed, since just then the conversation was violently
interrupted by a sudden terrific detonation, that shook the house and
sent birds skimming panic-stricken all over the garden. Target practise
in the Sierra Madre. The Consul had been half aware of it in his sleep
earlier. Puffs of smoke were drifting high over the rocks below Popo at
the end of the valley. Three black vultures came tearing through the
trees low over the roof with soft hoarse cries like the cries of love.
Driven at unaccustomed speed by their fear they seemed almost to
capsize, keeping close together but balancing at different angles to
avoid collision. Then they sought another tree to wait in and the echoes
of gunfire swept back over the house, soaring higher and higher and
growing fainter while somewhere a clock was striking nineteen. Twelve
o’clock, and the Consul said to the doctor: “Ah, that the dream of dark
magician in his visioned cave, even while his hand—that’s the bit I
like—shakes in its last decay, were the true end of this so lovely
world. Jesus. Do you know, compañero, I sometimes have the feeling that
it’s actually sinking, like Atlantis, beneath my feet. Down, down to the
frightful ‘poulps.’ Meropis of Theopompus . . . And the _ignivome_
mountains.” And the doctor who was nodding gloomily said: “Sí, that is
tequila. Hombre, un poco de cerveza, un poco de vino, but never no more
tequila. Never no more mescal.” And then the doctor was whispering: “But
hombre, now that your esposa has come back.” (It seemed that Dr. Vigil
had said this several times, only with a different look on his face:
“But hombre, now that your esposa has come back.”) And then he was
going: “I did not need to be inquisitive to be knowing you might have
wished my advice. No hombre, as I say last night, I am not so interested
in moneys.—Con permiso, the plaster he no good.” A little shower of
plaster had, indeed, rained down on the doctor’s head. Then: “Hasta la
vista” “Adiós” “Muchas gracias” “Thank you so much” “Sorry we couldn’t
come” “Have a good time,” from the swimming pool. “Hasta la vista”
again, then silence.

And now the Consul was in the bathroom getting ready to go to Tomalín.
“Oh . . .” he said “Oh . . .” But, you see, nothing so dire has happened
after all. First to wash. Sweating and trembling again, he took off his
coat and shirt. He had turned on the water in the basin. Yet for some
obscure reason he was standing under the shower, waiting in an agony for
the shock of cold water that never came. And he was still wearing his
trousers.

The Consul sat helplessly in the bathroom, watching the insects which
lay at different angles from one another on the wall, like ships out in
the roadstead. A caterpillar started to wriggle toward him, peering this
way and that, with interrogatory antennae. A large cricket, with
polished fuselage, clung to the curtain, swaying it slightly and
cleaning its face like a cat, its eyes on stalks appearing to revolve in
its head. He turned, expecting the caterpillar to be much nearer, but it
too had turned, just slightly shifting its moorings. Now a scorpion was
moving slowly across towards him. Suddenly the Consul rose, trembling in
every limb. But it wasn’t the scorpion he cared about. It was that, all
at once, the thin shadows of isolated nails, the stains of murdered
mosquitoes, the very scars and cracks of the wall, had begun to swarm,
so that, wherever he looked, another insect was born, wriggling
instantly toward his heart. It was as if, and this was what was most
appalling, the whole insect world had somehow moved nearer and now was
closing, rushing in upon him. For a moment the bottle of tequila at the
bottom of the garden gleamed on his soul, then the Consul stumbled into
his bedroom.

Here there was no longer that terrible visible swarming, yet—lying now
on the bed—it still seemed to persist in his mind, much as the vision
of the dead man earlier had persisted, a kind of seething, from which,
as from the persistent rolling of drums heard by some great dying
monarch, occasionally a half-recognizable voice dissociated itself:

—Stop it, for God’s sake, you fool. Watch your step. We can’t help you
any more.

—I would like the privilege of helping you, of your friendship. I would
work you with. I do not care a damn for moneys anyway.

—What, is this you, Geoffrey? Don’t you remember me? Your old friend,
Abe. What have you done, my boy?

—Ha ha, you’re for it now. Straightened out—in a coffin! Yeah.

—My son, my son!

—My lover. Oh come to me again as once in May.




                                   VI


—NEL mezzo del bloody cammin di nostra vita mi ritrovai in . . . Hugh
flung himself down on the porch daybed.

A strong warm gusty wind howled over the garden. Refreshed by his swim
and a lunch of turkey sandwiches, the cigar Geoff had given him earlier
partially shielded by the parapet, he lay watching the clouds speeding
across the Mexican skies. How fast they went, how far too fast! In the
middle of our life, in the middle of the bloody road of our life . . .

Twenty-nine clouds. At twenty-nine a man was in his thirtieth year. And
he was twenty-nine. And now at last, though the feeling had perhaps been
growing on him all morning, he knew what it felt like, the intolerable
impact of this knowledge that might have come at twenty-two, but had
not, that ought at least to have come at twenty-five, but still somehow
had not, this knowledge, hitherto associated only with people tottering
on the brink of the grave and A. E. Housman, that one could not be young
forever—that indeed, in the twinkling of an eye, one was not young any
longer. For in less than four years, passing so swiftly to-day’s
cigarette seemed smoked yesterday, one would be thirty-three, in seven
more, forty; in forty-seven, eighty. Sixty-seven years seemed a
comfortingly long time but then he would be a hundred. I am not a
prodigy any longer. I have no excuse any longer to behave in this
irresponsible fashion. I am not such a dashing fellow after all. I am
not young. On the other hand: I _am_ a prodigy. I _am_ young. I _am_ a
dashing fellow. Am I not? You are a liar, said the trees tossing in the
garden. You are a traitor, rattled the plantain leaves. And a coward
too, put in some fitful sounds of music that might have meant that in
the zócalo the fair was beginning. And they are losing the Battle of the
Ebro. Because of you, said the wind. A traitor even to your journalist
friends you like to run down and who are really courageous men, admit
it—_Ahhh!_ Hugh, as if to rid himself of these thoughts, turned the
radio dial back and forth, trying to get San Antonio (“I am none of
these things really.” “I have done nothing to warrant all this guilt.”
“I am no worse than anybody else . . .”); but it was no good. All his
resolutions of this morning were to no avail. It seemed useless to
struggle any further with these thoughts, better to let them have their
way. At least they would take his mind from Yvonne for a time, if they
only led back to her in the end. Even Juan Cerillo failed him now, as
did, at this moment, San Antonio: two Mexican voices on different wave
lengths were breaking in. For everything you have done up to now has
been dishonest, the first might have been saying. What about the way you
treated poor old Bolowski, the music publisher, remember his shabby
little shop in old Compton Street, off the Tottenham Court Road? Even
what you persuade yourself is the best thing about you, your passion for
helping the Jews, has some basis in a dishonorable action of your own.
Small wonder, since he so charitably forgave you, that you forgave him
_his_ skulduggery, to the point of being prepared to lead the whole
Jewish race out of Babylon itself . . . No: I am much afraid there is
little enough in your past, which will come to your aid against the
future. Not even the seagull? said Hugh . . .

The seagull—pure scavenger of the empyrean, hunter of edible stars—I
rescued that day as a boy when it was caught in a fence on the cliffside
and was beating itself to death, blinded by snow, and though it attacked
me, I drew it out unharmed, with one hand by its feet, and for one
magnificent moment held it up in the sunlight, before it soared away on
angelic wings over the freezing estuary?

The artillery started blasting away in the foothills again. A train
hooted somewhere, like an approaching steamer; perhaps the very train
Hugh’d be taking to-night. From the bottom of the swimming pool below a
reflected small sun blazed and nodded among the inverted papayas.
Reflections of vultures a mile deep wheeled upside down and were gone. A
bird, quite close really, seemed to be moving in a series of jerks
across the glittering summit of Popocatepetl—the wind, in fact, had
dropped, which was as well for his cigar. The radio had gone dead too,
and Hugh gave it up, settling himself back on the daybed.

Not even the seagull was the answer of course. The seagull had been
spoilt already by his dramatising it. Nor yet the poor little hot-dog
man? That bitter December night he had met him trudging down Oxford
Street with his new wagon—the first hot-dog wagon in London, and he had
been pushing it around for a whole month without selling a single
hotdog. Now with a family to support and Christmas approaching he was on
his uppers. Shades of Charles Dickens! It was perhaps the _newness_ of
the wretched wagon he’d been cozened into buying that seemed so awful.
But how could he expect, Hugh asked him, as above them the monstrous
deceptions twitched on and off, and around them the black soulless
buildings stood wrapped in a cold dream of their own destruction (they
had halted by a church from whose sooty wall a figure of Christ on the
cross had been removed leaving only the scar and the legend: Is it
nothing to you all ye who pass by?) how could he expect to sell anything
so revolutionary as a hot dog in Oxford Street? He might as well try ice
cream at the South Pole. No, the idea was to camp outside a pub down a
back alley, and that not any pub, but the Fitzroy Tavern in Charlotte
Street, chock full of starving artists drinking themselves to death
simply because their souls pined away, each night between eight and ten,
for lack of just such a thing as a hot dog. That was the place to go!

And—not even the hot-dog man was the answer; even though by Christmas
time, obviously, he had been doing a roaring trade outside the Fitzroy.
Hugh suddenly sat up, scattering cigar-ash everywhere.—And yet is it
nothing I am beginning to atone, to atone for my past, so largely
negative, selfish, absurd, and dishonest? That I propose to sit on top
of a shipload of dynamite bound for the hard-pressed Loyalist armies?
Nothing that after all I am willing to give my life for humanity, if not
in minute particulars? Nothing to ye that pass by? . . . Though what on
earth he expected it to be, if none of his friends knew he was going to
do it, was not very clear. So far as the Consul was concerned, he
probably suspected him of something even more reckless. And it had to be
admitted, one was not altogether averse to this, if it had not prevented
the Consul from still hinting uncomfortably close to the truth, that the
whole stupid beauty of such a decision made by anyone at a time like
this, must lie in that it _was_ so futile, that it _was_ too late, that
the Loyalists had already lost, and that should that person emerge safe
and sound, no one would be able to say of _him_ that he had been carried
away by the popular wave of enthusiasm for Spain, when even the Russians
had given up, and the Internationals withdrawn. But death and truth
could rhyme at a pinch! There was the old dodge too of telling anyone
who shook the dust of the City of Destruction from his feet he was
running away from himself and his responsibilities. But the useful
thought struck Hugh: I have no responsibilities. And how can I be
escaping from myself when I am without a place on earth? No home. A
piece of driftwood on the Indian Ocean. Is India my home? Disguise
myself as an untouchable, which should not be so difficult, and go to
prison on the Andaman Islands for seventy-seven years, until England
gives India her freedom? But I will tell you this: you would only by
doing so be embarrassing Mahatma Ghandi, secretly the only public figure
in the world for whom you have any respect. No, I respect Stalin too,
Cárdenas, and Jawaharlal Nehru—all three of whom probably could only be
embarrassed by my respect.—Hugh had another shot at San Antonio.

The radio came alive with a vengeance; at the Texan station news of a
flood was being delivered with such rapidity one gained the impression
the commentator himself was in danger of drowning. Another narrator in a
higher voice gobbled bankruptcy, disaster, while yet another told of
misery blanketing a threatened capital, people stumbling through debris
littering dark streets, hurrying thousands seeking shelter in bomb-torn
darkness. How well he knew the jargon. Darkness, disaster! How the world
fed on it. In the war to come correspondents would assume unheard-of
importance, plunging through flame to feed the public its little gobbets
of dehydrated excrement. A bawling scream abruptly warned of stocks
lower, or irregularly higher, the prices of grain, cotton, metal,
munitions. While static rattled on eternally below—poltergeists of the
ether, claqueurs of the idiotic! Hugh inclined his ear to the pulse of
this world beating in that latticed throat, whose voice was now
pretending to be horrified at the very thing by which it proposed to be
engulfed the first moment it could be perfectly certain the engulfing
process would last long enough. Impatiently switching the dial around,
Hugh thought he heard Joe Venuti’s violin suddenly, the joyous little
lark of discursive melody soaring in some remote summer of its own above
all this abyssal fury, yet furious too, with the wild controlled abandon
of that music which still sometimes seemed to him the happiest thing
about America. Probably they were rebroadcasting some ancient record,
one of those with the poetical names like Little Buttercup or Apple
Blossom, and it was curious how much it hurt, as though this music,
never outgrown, belonged irretrievably to that which had to-day at last
been lost. Hugh switched the radio off, and lay, cigar between his
fingers, staring at the porch ceiling.

Joe Venuti had not been the same, one heard, since Ed Lang died. The
latter suggested guitars, and if Hugh ever wrote, as he often threatened
to do, his autobiography, though it would have been rather unnecessary,
his life being one of those that perhaps lent themselves better to such
brief summation in magazines as “So and so is twenty-nine, has been
riveter, song-writer, watcher of manholes, stoker, sailor, riding
instructor, variety artist, bandsman, bacon-scrubber, saint, clown,
soldier (for five minutes), and usher in a spiritualist church, from
which it should not always be assumed that far from having acquired
through his experiences a wider view of existence, he has a somewhat
narrower notion of it than any bank clerk who has never set foot outside
Newcastle-under-Lyme,”—but if he ever wrote it, Hugh reflected, he
would have to admit that a guitar made a pretty important symbol in his
life.

He had not played one, and Hugh could play almost any kind of guitar,
for four or five years, and his numerous instruments declined with his
books in basements or attics in London or Paris, in Wardour Street night
clubs or behind the bar of the Marquis of Granby or the old Astoria in
Greek Street, long since become a convent and his bill still unpaid
there, in pawnshops in Tithebarn Street or the Tottenham Court Road,
where he imagined them as waiting for a time with all their sounds and
echoes for his heavy step, and then, little by little, as they gathered
dust, and each successive string broke, giving up hope, each string a
hawser to the fading memory of their friend, snapping off, the highest
pitched string always first, snapping with sharp gun-like reports, or
curious agonized whines, or provocative nocturnal meows, like a
nightmare in the soul of George Frederic Watts, till there was nothing
but the blank untumultuous face of the songless lyre itself, soundless
cave for spiders and steamflies, and delicate fretted neck, just as each
breaking string had severed Hugh himself pang by pang from his youth,
while the past remained, a tortured shape, dark and palpable and
accusing. Or the guitars would have been stolen many times by now, or
resold, repawned—inherited by some other master perhaps, as if each
were some great thought or doctrine. These sentiments, he was almost
diverted to think, were possibly more suited to some exiled dying
Segovia than to a mere ex-hot-guitarist. But Hugh, if he could not play
quite like Django Reinhardt or Eddie Lang on the one hand or, God help
him, Frank Crumit on the other, could not help remembering either that
he had once enjoyed the reputation of a tremendous talent. It was in an
odd sense spurious, this reputation, like so much else about him, his
greatest hits having been made with a tenor guitar tuned as a ukelele
and played virtually as a percussion instrument. Yet that in this
bizarre manner he had become the magician of commotions mistakable for
anything from the Scotch Express to elephants trampling in moonlight, an
old Parlophone rhythm classic (entitled, tersely, Juggernaut) testified
to this day. At all events, he thought, his guitar had probably been the
least fake thing about him. And fake or not one had certainly been
behind most of the major decisions of his life. For it was due to a
guitar he’d become a journalist, it was due to a guitar he had become a
song-writer, it was largely owing to a guitar even—and Hugh felt
himself suffused by a slow burning flush of shame—that he had first
gone to sea.

Hugh had started writing songs at school and before he was seventeen, at
about the same time he lost his innocence, also after several attempts,
two numbers of his were accepted by the Jewish firm of Lazarus Bolowski
and Sons in New Compton Street, London. His method was each whole
holiday to make the rounds of the music publishers with his guitar—and
in this respect his early life vaguely recalled that of another
frustrated artist, Adolf Hitler—his manuscripts transcribed for piano
alone in the guitar case, or another old Gladstone bag of Geoff’s. This
success in the tin-pan alleys of England overwhelmed him; almost before
his aunt knew what was afoot he was leaving school on the strength of it
with her permission. At this school, where he sub-edited the magazine,
he got on erratically; he told himself that he hated it for the snobbish
ideals prevailing there. There was a certain amount of anti-Semitism;
and Hugh whose heart was easily touched, had, though popular for his
guitar, chosen Jews as his particular friends and favoured them in his
columns. He was already entered at Cambridge for a year or so hence. He
had not, however, the slightest intention of going there. The prospect
of it, for some reason, he dreaded only less than being stuck meantime
at some crammer’s. And to prevent this he must act swiftly. As he
naïvely saw it, through his songs there was an excellent chance of
rendering himself completely independent, which also meant independent
in advance of the income that four years later he was to begin receiving
from the Public Trustees, independent of everybody, and without the
dubious benefit of a degree.

But his success was already beginning to wear off a little. For one
thing a premium was required (his aunt had paid the premium) and the
songs themselves were not to be published for several months. And it
struck him, more than prophetically as it happened, that these songs
alone, while both of the requisite thirty-two bars, of an equal
banality, and even faintly touched with moronism—Hugh later became so
ashamed of their titles that to this day he kept them locked in a secret
drawer of his mind—might be insufficient to do the trick. Well, he had
other songs, the titles to some of which, Susquehanna Mammy, Slumbering
Wabash, Mississippi Sunset, Dismal Swamp, etc., were perhaps revelatory,
and that of one at least, I’m Homesick for Being Homesick (for being
homesick for home) Vocal Fox Trot, profound, if not positively
Wordsworthian . . .

But all this seemed to belong in the future. Bolowski had hinted he
might take them if . . . And Hugh did not wish to offend him by trying
to sell them elsewhere. Not that there were many other publishers left
to try! But perhaps, perhaps, if these two songs _did_ make a great hit,
sold enormously, made Bolowski’s fortune, perhaps if some great
publicity—

Some great publicity! This was it, this was always it, something
sensational was needed, it was the cry of the times, and when that day
he had presented himself at the Marine Superintendent’s office in
Garston—Garston because Hugh’s aunt moved from London north to
Oswaldtwistle in the spring—to sign on board the S.S. _Philoctetes_ he
was at least certain something sensational had been found. Oh, Hugh saw,
it was a grotesque and pathetic picture enough, that of the youth who
imagined himself a cross between Bix Beiderbecke, whose first records
had just appeared in England, the infant Mozart, and the childhood of
Raleigh, signing on the dotted line in that office; and perhaps it was
true too he had been reading too much Jack London even then, _The Sea
Wolf_, and now in 1938 he had advanced to the virile _Valley of the
Moon_ (his favourite was _The Jacket_), and perhaps after all he did
genuinely love the sea, and that nauseous overrated expanse was his only
love, the only woman of whom his future wife need be jealous, perhaps
all these things were true of that youth, glimpsing probably, too, from
afar, beyond the clause Seamen and Firemen mutually to assist each
other, the promise of unlimited delight in the brothels of the
Orient—an illusion, to say the least: but what unfortunately almost
robbed it all of any vestige of the heroic was that in order to gain his
ends without, so to say, “conscience or consideration,” Hugh had
previously visited every newspaper office within a radius of thirty
miles, and most of the big London dailies had branch offices in that
part of the north, and _informed_ them precisely of his intention to
sail on the _Philoctetes_, counting on the prominence of his family,
remotely “news” even in England since the mystery of his father’s
disappearance, together with his tale of his songs’ acceptance—he
announced boldly that all were to be published by Bolowski—to make the
story, and hence supply the needed publicity, and upon the fear
engendered by this that yet _more_ publicity and possibly downright
ridicule must result for the family should they prevent his sailing, now
a public matter, to force their hand. There were other factors too; Hugh
had forgotten them. Even at that the newspapers could scarcely have felt
his story of much interest had he not faithfully lugged along his bloody
little guitar to each newspaper office. Hugh shuddered at the thought.
This probably made the reporters, most, in fact, fatherly and decent men
who may have seen a private dream being realised, humour the lad so bent
on making an ass of himself. Not that anything of the sort occurred to
him at the time. Quite the contrary. Hugh was convinced he’d been
amazingly clever, and the extraordinary letters of “congratulation” he
received from shipless buccaneers everywhere, who found their lives
under a sad curse of futility because they had not sailed with their
elder brothers the seas of the last war, whose curious thoughts were
merrily brewing the next one, and of whom Hugh himself was perhaps the
archetype, served only to strengthen his opinion. He shuddered again,
for he _might_ not have gone after all, he _might_ have been forcibly
prevented by certain husky forgotten relatives, never before reckoned
with, who’d come as if springing out of the ground to his aunt’s aid,
had it not been, of all people, for Geoff, who wired back sportingly
from Rabat to their father’s sister: _Nonsense. Consider Hugh’s proposed
trip best possible thing for him. Strongly urge you give him every
freedom._—A potent point, one considered; since now his trip had been
deprived neatly not only of its heroic aspect but of any possible
flavour of rebellion as well. For in spite of the fact that he now was
receiving every assistance from the very people he mysteriously imagined
himself running away from, even after broadcasting his plans to the
world, he still could not bear for one moment to think he was not
“running away to sea.” And for this Hugh had never wholly forgiven the
Consul.

Even so, on the very day, Friday the thirteenth of May, that Frankie
Trumbauer three thousand miles away made his famous record of For No
Reason at All in C, to Hugh now a poignant historical coincidence, and
pursued by neo-American frivolities from the English press, which had
begun to take up the story with relish, ranging all the way down from
“Schoolboy composer turns seaman”, “Brother of prominent citizen here
feels ocean call”, “Will always return Oswaldtwistle, parting words of
prodigy”, “Saga of schoolboy crooner recalls old Kashmir mystery”, to
once, obscurely “Oh, to be a Conrad”, and once, inaccurately,
“Undergraduate song-writer signs on cargo vessel, takes ukelele”,—for
he was not yet an undergraduate, as an old able seaman was shortly to
remind him—to the last, and most terrifying, though under the
circumstances bravely inspired “No silk cushions for Hugh, says Aunt”,
Hugh himself, not knowing whether he voyaged east or west, nor even what
the lowliest hand had at least heard vaguely rumored, that Philoctetes
was a figure in Greek mythology—son of Poeas, friend of Heracles, and
whose cross-bow proved almost as proud and unfortunate a possession as
Hugh’s guitar—set sail for Cathay and the brothels of Palambang. Hugh
writhed on the bed to think of all the humiliation his little publicity
stunt had really brought down on his head, a humiliation in itself
sufficient to send anyone into even more desperate retreat than to sea
. . . Meantime it is scarcely an overstatement to say (Jesus, Cock, did
you see the bloody paper? We’ve got a bastard duke on board or something
of that) that he was on a false footing with his shipmates. Not that
their attitude was at all what might have been expected! Many of them at
first seemed kind to him, but it turned out their motives were not
entirely altruistic. They suspected, rightly, that he had influence at
the office. Some had sexual motives, of obscure origin. Many on the
other hand seemed unbelievably spiteful and malignant, though in a petty
way never before associated with the sea, and never since with the
proletariat. They read his diary behind his back. They stole his money.
They even stole his dungarees and made him buy them back again, on
credit, since they had already virtually deprived themselves of his
purchasing power. They hid chipping hammers in his bunk and in his
sea-bag. Then, all at once, when he was cleaning out, say, the petty
officer’s bathroom, some very young seaman might grow mysteriously
obsequious and say something like: “Do you realise, mate, you’re working
for us, when we should be working for you?” Hugh, who did not see then
he had put his comrades in a false position too, heard this line of talk
with disdain. His persecutions, such as they were, he took in good part.
For one thing, they vaguely compensated for what was to him one of the
most serious deficiencies in his new life.

This was, in a complicated sense, its “softness.” Not that it was not a
nightmare. It was, but of a very special kind he was scarcely old enough
to appreciate. Nor that his hands were not worked raw then hard as
boards. Or that he did not nearly go crazy with heat and boredom working
under winches in the tropics or putting red lead on the decks. Nor that
it was not all rather worse than fagging at school, or might have seemed
so, had he not carefully been sent to a modern school where there was no
fagging. It was, he did, they were; he raised no mental objections. What
he objected to were little, inconceivable things.

For instance, that the forecastle was not called the fo’c’sle but the
“men’s quarters,” and was not forward where it should be, but aft, under
the poop. Now everyone knows a forecastle should be forward, and be
called the fo’c’sle. But this forecastle was not called the fo’c’sle
because in point of fact it was not a fo’c’sle. The deckhead of the poop
roofed what all too patently were “men’s quarters,” as they were styled,
separate cabins just like on the Isle of Man boat, with two bunks in
each running along an alleyway broken by the messroom. But Hugh was not
grateful for these hard-won “better” conditions. To him a fo’c’sle—and
where else should the crew of a ship live?—meant inescapably a single
evil-smelling room forward with bunks around a table, under a swinging
kerosene lamp, where men fought, whored, drank, and murdered. On board
the _Philoctetes_ men neither fought, whored, nor murdered. As for their
drinking, Hugh’s aunt had said to him at the end, with a truly noble
romantic acceptance: “You know, Hugh, I don’t expect you to drink only
_coffee_ going through the Black Sea.” She was right. Hugh did not go
near the Black Sea. On board, nevertheless, he drank mostly coffee:
sometimes tea; occasionally water; and, in the tropics, limejuice. Just
like all the others. This tea, too, was the subject of another matter
that bothered him. Every afternoon, on the stroke of six and eight bells
respectively, it was at first Hugh’s duty, his mate being sick, to run
in from the galley, first to the bosun’s mess and afterwards to the
crew, what the bosun called, with unction, “afternoon tea.” With
tabnabs. The tabnabs were delicate and delicious little cakes made by
the second cook. Hugh ate them with scorn. Imagine the Sea Wolf sitting
down to afternoon tea at four o’clock with tabnabs! And this was not the
worst. An even more important item was the food itself. The food on
board the _Philoctetes_, a common British cargo steamer, contrary to a
tradition so strong Hugh had hardly dared contradict it till this moment
even in his dreams, was excellent; compared with that of his public
school, where he had lived under catering conditions no merchant seaman
would tolerate for five minutes, it was a gourmet’s fantasy. There were
never fewer than five courses for breakfast in the P.O.’s mess, to which
at the outset he was more strictly committed; but it proved almost as
satisfying in the “men’s quarters.” American dry hash, kippers, poached
eggs and bacon, porridge, steaks, rolls, all at one meal, even on one
plate; Hugh never remembered having seen so much food in his life. All
the more surprising then was it for him to discover it his duty each day
to heave vast quantities of this miraculous food over the side. This
chow the crew hadn’t eaten went into the Indian Ocean, into any ocean,
rather, as the saying is, than “let it go back to the office.” Hugh was
not grateful for these hard-won better conditions either. Nor,
mysteriously, seemed anyone else to be. For the wretchedness of the food
was the great topic of conversation. “Never mind, chaps, soon we’ll be
home where a fellow can have some tiddley chow he can eat, instead of
all this bloody kind of stuff, bits of paint, I don’t know what it is at
all.” And Hugh, a loyal soul at bottom, grumbled with the rest. He found
his spiritual level with the stewards, however . . .

Yet he felt trapped. The more completely for the realisation that in no
essential sense had he escaped from his past life. It was all here,
though in another form: the same conflicts, faces, same people, he could
imagine, as at school, the same spurious popularity with his guitar, the
same kind of unpopularity because he made friends with the stewards, or
worse, with the Chinese firemen. Even the ship looked like a fantastic
mobile football field. Anti-Semitism, it is true, he had left behind,
for Jews on the whole had more sense than to go to sea. But if he had
expected to leave British snobbery astern with his public school he was
sadly mistaken. In fact, the degree of snobbery prevailing on the
_Philoctetes_ was fantastic, of a kind Hugh had never imagined possible.
The chief cook regarded the tireless second cook as a creature of
completely inferior station. The bosun despised the carpenter and would
not speak to him for three months, though they messed in the same small
room, because he was a tradesman, while the carpenter despised the bosun
since he, Chips, was the senior petty officer. The chief steward, who
affected striped shirts off duty, was clearly contemptuous of the
cheerful second, who, refusing to take his calling seriously, was
content with a singlet and a sweat-rag. When the youngest apprentice
went ashore for a swim with a towel round his neck he was solemnly
rebuked by a quartermaster wearing a tie without a collar for being a
disgrace to the ship. And the captain himself nearly turned black in the
face each time he saw Hugh because, intending a compliment, Hugh had
described the _Philoctetes_ in an interview as a tramp. Tramp or no, the
whole ship rolled and weltered in bourgeois prejudices and taboos the
like of which Hugh had not known even existed. Or so it seemed to him.
It is wrong, though, to say she rolled. Hugh, far from aspiring to be a
Conrad, as the papers suggested, had not then read a word of him. But he
was vaguely aware Conrad hinted somewhere that in certain seasons
typhoons were to be expected along the China coast. This was such a
season; here, eventually, was the China coast. Yet there seemed no
typhoons. Or if there were the _Philoctetes_ was careful to avoid them.
From the time she emerged from the Bitter Lakes till she lay in the
roads at Yokohama a dead monotonous calm prevailed. Hugh chipped rust
through the bitter watches. Only they were not really bitter; nothing
happened. And they were not watches; he was a day worker. Still, he had
to pretend to himself, poor fellow, there was something romantic in what
he had done. As was there not! He might easily have consoled himself by
looking at a map. Unfortunately maps also too vividly suggested school.
So that going through the Suez he was not conscious of sphinxes,
Ismailia, nor Mt. Sinai; nor, through the Red Sea, of Hejaz, Asir,
Yemen. Because Perim belonged to India while so remote from it, that
island had always fascinated him. Yet they stood off the terrible place
a whole forenoon without his grasping the fact. An Italian Somaliland
stamp with wild herdsmen on it was once his most treasured possession.
They passed Guardafui without his realising this any more than when as a
child of three he’d sailed by in the opposite direction. Later he did
not think of Cape Comorin, or Nicobar. Nor, in the Gulf of Siam, of
Pnom-Penh. Maybe he did not know himself what he thought about; bells
struck, the engine thrummed; _videre_; _videre_; and far above was
perhaps another sea, where the soul ploughed its high invisible wake—

Certainly Sokotra only became a symbol to him much later, and that in
Karachi homeward bound he might have passed within figurative hailing
distance of his birthplace never occurred to him . . . Hongkong,
Shanghai; but the opportunities to get ashore were few and far between,
the little money there was they could never touch, and after having lain
at Yokohama a full month without one shore leave Hugh’s cup of
bitterness was full. Yet where permission had been granted instead of
roaring in bars the men merely sat on board sewing and telling the dirty
jokes Hugh had heard at the age of eleven. Or they engaged in loutish
neuter compensations. Hugh had not escaped the Pharisaism of his English
elders either. There was a good library on board, however, and under the
tutelage of the lamptrimmer Hugh began the education with which an
expensive public school had failed to provide him. He read the _Forsyte
Saga_ and _Peer Gynt_. It was largely owing to the lamptrimmer too, a
kindly quasi-communist, who normally spent his watch below studying a
pamphlet named the Red Hand, that Hugh gave up his notion of dodging
Cambridge. “If I were you I’d go to the poxing place. Get what you
bloody can out of the set-up.”

Meanwhile his reputation had followed him relentlessly down the China
coast. Though the headlines of the Singapore _Free Press_ might read
“Murder of Brother-in-Law’s Concubine” it would be surprising if shortly
one did not stumble upon some such passage as: “A curly-headed boy stood
on the fo’c’sle head of the _Philoctetes_ as she docked in Penang
strumming his latest composition on the ukelele.” News which any day now
would turn up in Japan. Nevertheless the guitar itself had come to the
rescue. And now at least Hugh knew what he was thinking about. It was of
England, and the homeward voyage! England, that he had so longed to get
away from, now became the sole object of his yearning, the promised land
to him; through the monotony of eternally riding at anchor, beyond the
Yokohama sunsets like breaks from Singing the Blues, he dreamed of her
as a lover of his mistress. He certainly didn’t think of any other
mistresses he might have had at home. His one or two brief affairs, if
serious at the time, had been forgotten long ago. A tender smile of Mrs.
Bolowski’s flashed in dark New Compton Street, had haunted him longer.
No: he thought of the double-decker buses in London, the advertisements
for music halls up north, Birkenhead Hippodrome: twice nightly 6:30,
8:30. And of green tennis courts, the thud of tennis balls on crisp
turf, and their swift passage across the net, the people in deck chairs
drinking tea (despite the fact he was well able to emulate them on the
_Philoctetes_), the recently acquired taste for good English ale and old
cheese . . .

But above all there were his songs, which would now be published. What
did anything matter when back home at that very Birkenhead Hippodrome
perhaps, they were being played and sung, twice nightly, to crowded
houses? And what were those people humming to themselves by those tennis
courts if not his tunes? Or if not humming them they were talking of
him. For fame awaited him in England, not the false kind he had already
brought on himself, not cheap notoriety, but real fame, fame he could
now feel, having gone through hell, through “fire”—and Hugh persuaded
himself such really was the case—he had earned as his right and reward.

But the time came when Hugh _did_ go through fire. One day a poor sister
ship of a different century, the _Oedipus Tyrannus_, whose namesake the
lamptrimmer of the _Philoctetes_ might have informed him was another
Greek in trouble, lay in Yokohama roads, remote, yet too near, for that
night the two great ships ceaselessly turning with the tide gradually
swung so close together they almost collided, one moment this seemed
about to happen, on the _Philoctetes’_ poop all was excitement, then as
the vessels barely slid by one another the first mate shouted through a
megaphone:

“Give Captain Telson Captain Sanderson’s compliments, and tell him he’s
been given a foul berth!”

The _Oedipus Tyrannus_, which, unlike the _Philoctetes_, carried white
firemen, had been away from home the incredible period of fourteen
months. For this reason her ill-used skipper was by no means so anxious
as Hugh’s to deny his ship was a tramp. Twice now the Rock of Gibraltar
had loomed on his starboard bow only to presage not Thames, or Mersey,
but the Western Ocean, the long trip to New York. And then Vera Cruz and
Colon, Vancouver and the long voyage over the Pacific back to the Far
East. And now, just as everyone was feeling certain this time at last
they were to go home, he had been ordered to New York once more. Her
crew, especially the firemen, were weary to death of this state of
affairs. The next morning, as the two ships rode again at a gracious
distance, a notice appeared in the _Philoctetes’_ after messroom calling
for volunteers to replace three seamen and four firemen of the _Oedipus
Tyrannus_. These men would thus be enabled to return to England with the
_Philoctetes_, which had been at sea only three months, but within the
week on leaving Yokohama would be homeward bound.

Now at sea more days are more dollars, however few. And at sea likewise
three months is a terribly long while. But fourteen months (Hugh had not
yet read Melville either) is an eternity. It was not likely that the
_Oedipus Tyrannus_ would face more than another six of vagrancy: then
one never knew; it might be the idea gradually to transfer her more
long-suffering hands to homegoing vessels when she contacted them and
keep her wandering two more years. At the end of two days there were
only two volunteers, a wireless watcher and an ordinary seaman.

Hugh looked at the _Oedipus Tyrannus_ in her new berth, but swinging
again rebelliously close, as to the tether of his mind, the old steamer
appearing now on one quarter, now on another, one moment near the
breakwater, the next running out to sea. She was, unlike the
_Philoctetes_, everything in his eyes a ship should be. First she was
not in rig a football boat, a mass of low goalposts and trankums. Her
masts and derricks were of the lofty coffee-pot variety. These former
were black, of iron. Her funnel too was tall, and needed paint. She was
foul and rusty, red lead showed along her side. She had a marked list to
port, and, who knows, one to starboard as well. The condition of her
bridge suggested recent contact—could it be possible?—with a typhoon.
If not, she possessed the air of one who would soon attract them. She
was battered, ancient, and happy thought, perhaps even about to sink.
And yet there was something youthful and beautiful about her, like an
illusion that will never die, but always remains hull-down on the
horizon. It was said she was capable of seven knots. And she was going
to New York! On the other hand should he sign on her, what became of
England? He was not so absurdly sanguine about his songs as to imagine
his fame so bright there after two years . . . Besides, it would mean a
terrible readjustment, starting all over again. Still, there could not
be the same stigma attaching to him on board. His name would scarcely
have reached Colon. Ah, his brother Geoff, too, knew these seas, these
pastures of experience, what would he have done?

But he couldn’t do it. Galled as he was lying a month at Yokohama
without shore leave it was still asking too much. It was as if at
school, just as the end of term beautifully came in sight, he had been
told there would be no summer holidays, he must go on working as usual
through August and September. Save that no one was telling him anything.
Some inner self, merely, was urging him to volunteer so that another
sea-weary man, homesick longer than he, might take his place. Hugh
signed on board the _Oedipus Tyrannus_.

When he returned to the _Philoctetes_ a month later in Singapore he was
a different man. He had dysentery. The _Oedipus Tyrannus_ had not
disappointed him. Her food was poor. No refrigeration, simply an icebox.
And a chief steward (the dirty ’og) who sat all day in his cabin smoking
cigarettes. The fo’c’sle was forward too. He left her against his will
however, due to an agential confusion, and with nothing in his mind of
Lord Jim, about to pick up pilgrims going to Mecca. New York had been
shelved, his shipmates, if not all the pilgrims, would probably reach
home after all. Alone with his pain off duty Hugh felt a sorry fellow.
Yet every now and then he rose on his elbow: my God what a life! No
conditions could be too good for the men tough enough to endure it. Not
even the ancient Egyptians knew what slavery was. Though what did he
know about it? Not much. The bunkers, loaded at Miki—a black coaling
port calculated to fulfil any landsman’s conception of a sailor’s
dreams, since every house in it was a brothel, every woman a prostitute,
including even an old hag who did tattoos—were soon full: the coal was
near the stokehold floor. He had seen only the bright side of a
trimmer’s job, if it could be said to have one. But was it much better
on deck? Not really. No pity there either. To the sailor life at sea was
no senseless publicity stunt. It was dead serious. Hugh was horribly
ashamed of ever having so exploited it. Years of crashing dullness, of
exposure to every kind of obscure peril and disease, your destiny at the
mercy of a company interested in your health only because it might have
to pay your insurance, your home life reduced to a hip-bath with your
wife on the kitchen mat every eighteen months, that was the sea. That,
and a secret longing to be buried in it. And an enormous unquenchable
pride. Hugh now thought he realised dimly what the lamptrimmer had tried
to explain, why he had been alternately abused and toadied to on the
_Philoctetes_. It was largely because he had foolishly advertised
himself as the representative of a heartless system both distrusted and
feared. Yet to seamen this system offers far greater inducement than to
firemen, who rarely emerge through the hawse-hole into the bourgeois
upper air. Nevertheless, it remains suspect. Its ways are devious. Its
spies are everywhere. It will wheedle to you, who can tell, even on a
guitar. For this reason its diary must be read. One must check up, keep
abreast of its deviltries. One must, if necessary, flatter it, ape it,
seem to collaborate with it. And it, in turn, flatters you. It yields a
point here and there, in matters such as food, better living conditions,
even, though it has first destroyed the peace of mind necessary to
benefit by them, libraries. For in this manner it keeps a stranglehold
on your soul. And because of this it sometimes happens you grow
obsequious and find yourself saying: “Do you know, you are working for
us, when we should be working for you?” That is right too. The system is
working for you, as you will shortly discover, when the next war comes,
bringing jobs for all. “But don’t imagine you can get away with these
tricks forever,” you are repeating all the time in your heart; “Actually
we have you in our grip. Without us in peace or war Christendom must
collapse like a heap of ashes!” Hugh saw holes in the logic of this
thought. Nevertheless, on board the _Oedipus Tyrannus_, almost without
taint of that symbol, Hugh had been neither abused nor toadied to. He
had been treated as a comrade. And generously helped, when unequal to
his task. Only four weeks. Yet those weeks with the _Oedipus Tyrannus_
had reconciled him to the _Philoctetes_. Thus he became bitterly
concerned that so long as he stayed sick someone else must do his job.
When he turned to again before he was well he still dreamed of England
and fame. But he was mainly occupied with finishing his work in style.
During these last hard weeks he played his guitar seldom. It seemed he
was getting along splendidly. So splendidly that, before docking, his
shipmates insisted on packing his bag for him. As it turned out, with
stale bread.

They lay at Gravesend waiting for the tide. Around them in the misty
dawn sheep were already bleating softly. The Thames, in the half-light,
seemed not unlike the Yangtze-Kiang. Then, suddenly, someone knocked out
his pipe on a garden wall . . .

Hugh hadn’t waited to discover whether the journalist who came aboard at
Silvertown liked to play his songs in his spare time. He’d almost thrown
him bodily off the ship.

Whatever prompted the ungenerous act did not prevent his somehow finding
his way that night to New Compton Street and Bolowski’s shabby little
shop. Closed now and dark: but Hugh could almost be certain those were
his songs in the window. How strange it all was! Almost he fancied he
heard familiar chords from above—Mrs. Bolowski practising them softly
in an upper room. And later, seeking an hotel, that all around him
people were humming them. That night too, in the Astoria, this humming
persisted in his dreams; he rose at dawn to investigate once more the
wonderful window. Neither of his songs was there. Hugh was only
disappointed an instant. Probably his songs were so popular no copies
could be spared for display. Nine o’clock brought him again to
Bolowski’s. The little man was delighted to see him. Yes, indeed, both
his songs had been published a considerable time. Bolowski would go and
get them. Hugh waited breathlessly. Why was he away so long? After all,
Bolowski was his publisher. It could not be, surely, he was having any
difficulty _finding_ them. At last Bolowski and an assistant returned
with two enormous packages. “Here,” he said, “are your songs. What would
you like us to do with them? Would you like to take them? Or would you
like us to keep them a while longer?”

And there, indeed, were Hugh’s songs. They had been published, a
thousand sheets of each, as Bolowski said: that was all. No effort had
been made to distribute them. Nobody was humming them. No comedian was
singing them at the Birkenhead Hippodrome. No one had ever heard a word
more of the songs “the schoolboy undergraduate” had written. And so far
as Bolowski was concerned it was a matter of complete indifference
whether anyone heard a word more in the future. He had printed them,
thus fulfilling his part of the contract. It had cost him perhaps a
third of the premium. The rest was clear profit. If Bolowski published a
thousand such songs a year by the unsuspecting half-wits willing to pay
why go to the expense of pushing them? The premiums alone were his
justification. And after all, Hugh had his songs. Hadn’t he known,
Bolowski gently explained, there was no market for songs by English
composers? That most of the songs published were American? Hugh in spite
of himself felt flattered at being initiated into the mysteries of the
song-writing business. “But all the publicity,” he stammered, “wasn’t
all that good advertising for you?” And Bolowski gently shook his head.
That story had gone dead before the songs were published. “Yet it would
be easy to revive it?—” Hugh muttered, swallowing all his complicated
good intentions as he remembered the reporter he’d kicked off the ship
the day before: then, ashamed, he tried another tack . . . Maybe, after
all, one might stand more chance in America as a song-writer? And he
thought, remotely, of the _Oedipus Tyrannus_. But Bolowski quietly
scoffed at one’s chances in America; there, where every waiter was a
song-writer—

All this while, though, Hugh had been half-hopefully glancing over his
songs. At least his name was on the covers. And on one was actually the
photograph of a dance band. Featured with enormous success by Izzy
Smigalkin and his orchestra! Taking several copies of each he returned
to the Astoria. Izzy Smigalkin was playing at the Elephant and Castle
and thither he bent his steps, why he could not have said, since
Bolowski had already implied the truth, that even had Izzy Smigalkin
been playing at the Kilburn Empire itself he was still not the fellow to
prove interested in any songs for which band parts had not been issued,
be he featuring them by obscure arrangement through Bolowski with never
so much success. Hugh became aware of the world.

He passed his exam to Cambridge but scarcely left his old haunts.
Eighteen months must elapse before he went up. The reporter he’d thrown
off the _Philoctetes_ had said to him, whatever his point: “You’re a
fool. You could have every editor in town running after you.” Chastened,
Hugh found through this same man a job on a newspaper pasting cuttings
in a scrap-book. So it had come to this! However he soon acquired some
sense of independence—though his board was paid by his aunt. And his
rise was rapid. His notoriety had helped, albeit he wrote nothing so far
of the sea. At bottom he desired honesty, art, and his story of a
brothel burning in Wapping Old Stairs was said to embrace both. But at
the back of his mind other fires were smouldering. No longer did he grub
around from shady publisher to publisher with his guitar and his
manuscripts in Geoff’s gladstone bag. Yet his life once more began to
bear a certain resemblance to Adolf Hitler’s. He had not lost touch with
Bolowski, and in his heart he imagined himself plotting revenge. A form
of private anti-Semitism became part of his life. He sweated racial
hatred in the night. If it still sometimes struck him that in the
stokehold he had fallen down the spout of the capitalist system that
feeling was now inseparable from his loathing of the Jews. It was
somehow the fault of the poor old Jews, not merely Bolowski, but all
Jews, that he’d found himself down the stokehold in the first place on a
wild goose chase. It was even due to the Jews that such economic
excrescences as the British Mercantile Marine existed. In his day dreams
he became the instigator of enormous pogroms—all-inclusive, and hence,
bloodless. And daily he moved nearer his design. True, between it and
him, from time to time rose up the shadow of the _Philoctetes’_
lamptrimmer. Or flickered the shadows of the trimmers in the _Oedipus
Tyrannus_. Were not Bolowski and his ilk the enemies of their own race
and the Jews themselves the castout, exploited, and wandering of the
earth, even as they, even, once, as he? But what was the brotherhood of
man when your brothers put stale bread in your sea-bag? Still, where
else to turn for some decent and clear values? Had his father or mother
not died perhaps? His aunt? Geoff? But Geoff, like some ghostly other
self was always in Rabat or Timbuctoo. Besides he’d deprived him once
already of the dignity of being a rebel. Hugh smiled as he lay on the
daybed . . . For there had been someone, he now saw, to whose memory at
least he might have turned. It reminded him moreover that he’d been an
ardent revolutionary for a while at the age of thirteen. And, odd to
recall, was it not this same Headmaster of his former prep school, and
Scoutmaster, Dr. Gotelby, fabulous stalking totem pole of Privilege, the
Church, the English gentleman—God save the King and sheet anchor of
parents, who’d been responsible for his heresy? Goat old boy! With
admirable independence the fiery old fellow, who preached the virtues
each Sunday in Chapel, had illustrated to his goggling history class how
the Bolshevists, far from being the child murderers in the _Daily Mail_,
followed a way of life only less splendid than that current throughout
his own community of Pangbourne Garden City. But Hugh had forgotten his
ancient mentor then. Just as he had long since forgotten to do his good
turn every day. That a Christian smiles and whistles under all
difficulties and that once a scout you were always a communist. Hugh
only remembered to be prepared. So Hugh seduced Bolowski’s wife.

This was perhaps a matter of opinion . . . But unfortunately it hadn’t
changed Bolowski’s decision to file suit for divorce, naming Hugh as
co-respondent. Almost worse was to follow. Bolowski suddenly charged
Hugh with attempting to deceive him in other respects, that the songs
he’d published were nothing less than plagiarisms of two obscure
American numbers. Hugh was staggered. Could this be? Had he been living
in a world of illusion so absolute he’d looked forward passionately to
the publication of someone else’s songs, paid for by himself, or rather
by his aunt, that, involvedly, even his disillusionment on their account
was false? It was not, it proved, quite so bad as that. Yet there was
all too solid ground for the accusation so far as one song was concerned
. . .

On the daybed Hugh wrestled with his cigar. God almighty. Good God all
blistering mighty. He must have known all the time. He knew he had
known. On the other hand, caring only for the rendering, it looked as if
he could be persuaded by his guitar that almost any song was his. The
fact that the American number was infallibly a plagiarism too didn’t
help the slightest. Hugh was in anguish. At this point he was living in
Blackheath and one day, the threat of exposure dogging every footstep,
he walked fifteen miles to the city, through the slums of Lewisham
Catford, New Cross, down the Old Kent Road, past, ah, the Elephant and
Castle, into the heart of London. His poor songs pursued him in a minor
key now, macabre. He wished he could be lost in these poverty-stricken
hopeless districts romanticised by Longfellow. He wished the world would
swallow him and his disgrace. For disgrace there would be. The publicity
he had once evoked on his own behalf assured it. How was his aunt going
to feel now? And Geoff? The few people who believed in him? Hugh
conceived a last gigantic pogrom; in vain. It seemed, finally, almost a
comfort that his mother and father were dead. As for the senior tutor of
his college, it wasn’t likely he would care to welcome a freshman just
dragged through the divorce courts; dread words. The prospect seemed
horrible, life at an end, the only hope to sign on another ship
immediately it was all over, or if possible, before it all began.

Then, suddenly, a miracle occurred, something fantastic, unimaginable,
and for which to this day Hugh could find no logical explanation. All at
once Bolowski dropped the whole thing. He forgave his wife. He sent for
Hugh and, with the utmost dignity, forgave him. The divorce suit was
withdrawn. So were the plagiarism charges. It was all a mistake,
Bolowski said. At worst the songs had never been distributed, so what
damage had been done? The sooner it was all forgotten the better. Hugh
could not believe his ears: nor in memory believe them now, nor that, so
soon after everything had seemed so completely lost, and one’s life
irretrievably ruined, one should, as though nothing had happened, have
calmly gone up to—

“Help.”

Geoffrey, his face half covered with lather, was standing in the doorway
of his room, beckoning tremulously with a shaving brush and Hugh,
throwing his ravaged cigar into the garden, rose and followed him in. He
normally had to pass through this interesting room to reach his own (the
door of which stood open opposite, revealing the mowing machine) and at
the moment, Yvonne’s being occupied, to reach the bathroom. This was a
delightful place, and extremely large for the size of the house; its
windows, through which sunlight was pouring, looked down the drive
toward the Calle Nicaragua. The room was pervaded by some sweet heavy
scent of Yvonne’s, while the odours of the garden filtered in through
Geoff’s open bedroom window.

“The shakes are awful, did you never have the shakes,” the Consul was
saying, shivering all over: Hugh took the shaving brush from him and
began to relather it on a tablet of fragrant asses’ milk soap lying in
the basin. “Yes, you did, I remember. But not the rajah shakes.”

“No—no newspaperman ever had the shakes.” Hugh arranged a towel about
the Consul’s neck. “You mean the wheels.”

“The wheels within wheels this is.”

“I deeply sympathise. Now then, we’re all set. Stand still.”

“How on earth can I stand still?”

“Perhaps you’d better sit down.”

But the Consul could not sit down either.

“Jesus, Hugh, I’m sorry. I can’t stop bouncing about. It’s like being in
a tank—did I say tank? Christ, I need a drink. What have we here?” The
Consul grasped, from the windowsill, an uncorked bottle of bay rum.
“What’s this like, do you suppose, eh? For the scalp.” Before Hugh could
stop him the Consul took a large drink. “Not bad. Not at all bad,” he
added triumphantly, smacking his lips. “If slightly underproof . . .
Like pernod, a little. A charm against galloping cockroaches anyway. And
the polygonous proustian stare of imaginary scorpions. Wait a minute,
I’m going to be—”

Hugh let the taps run loudly. Next door he heard Yvonne moving about,
getting ready to go to Tomalín. But he’d left the radio playing on the
porch; probably she could hear no more than the usual bathroom babel.

“Tit for tat,” the Consul, still trembling, commented, when Hugh had
assisted him back to his chair. “I did that for you once.”

“Sí, hombre.” Hugh, lathering the brush again on the asses’ milk soap,
raised his eyebrows. “Quite so. Better now, old fellow?”

“When you were an infant,” the Consul’s teeth chattered. “On the P and O
boat coming back from India . . . The old _Cocanada_.”

Hugh resettled the towel around his brother’s neck, then, as if
absentmindedly obeying the other’s wordless instructions, went out,
humming, through the bedroom back to the porch, where the radio was now
stupidly playing Beethoven in the wind, blowing hard again on this side
of the house. On his return with the whiskey bottle he rightly deduced
the Consul to have hidden in the cupboard, his eyes ranged the Consul’s
books disposed quite neatly—in the tidy room where there was not
otherwise the slightest sign its occupant did any work or contemplated
any for the future, unless it was the somewhat crumpled bed on which the
Consul had evidently been lying—on high shelves around the walls: Dogme
et Ritual de la Haute Magie, Serpent and Siva Worship in Central
America, there were two long shelves of this, together with the rusty
leather bindings and frayed edges of the numerous cabbalistic and
alchemical books, though some of them looked fairly new, like the Goetia
of the Lemegaton of Solomon the King, probably they were treasures, but
the rest were a heterogeneous collection: Gogol, the Mahabharata, Blake,
Tolstoy, Pontoppidan, the Upanishads, a Mermaid Marston, Bishop
Berkeley, Duns Scotus, Spinoza, Vice Versa, Shakespeare, a complete
Taskerson, All Quiet on the Western Front, the Clicking of Cuthbert, the
Rig Veda—God knows, Peter Rabbit; “Everything is to be found in Peter
Rabbit,” the Consul liked to say—Hugh returned, smiling, and with a
flourish like a Spanish waiter poured him a stiff drink into a toothmug.

“Wherever did you find that?—ah! . . . You’ve saved my life!”

“That’s nothing. I did the same for Carruthers once.” Hugh now set about
shaving the Consul who had become much steadier almost immediately.

“Carruthers—the Old Crow? . . . Did what for Carruthers?”

“Held his head.”

“He wasn’t tight of course, though.”

“Not tight . . . Submerged. In a supervision too.” Hugh flourished the
cut-throat razor. “Try and sit still like that; you’re doing fine. He
had a great respect for you—he had an enormous number of stories about
you, mostly variations on the same one . . . however . . . The one about
your riding into college on a horse—”

“Oh no . . . I wouldn’t have ridden it in. Anything bigger than a sheep
frightens me.”

“Anyway there the horse was, tied up in the buttery. A pretty ferocious
horse too. Apparently it took about thirty-seven gyps and the college
porter to get it out.”

“Good lord . . . But I can’t imagine Carruthers ever getting so tight
he’d pass out at a supervision. Let me see, he was only praelector in my
time. I believe he was really more interested in his first editions than
in us. Of course it was at the beginning of the war, a rather trying
period . . . But he was a wonderful old chap.”

“He was still praelector in mine.”

(In my time? . . . But what, exactly, does that mean? What, if anything,
did one do at Cambridge, that would show the soul worthy of Siegebert of
East Anglia—Or, John Cornford! Did one dodge lectures, cut halls, fail
to row for the college, fool one’s supervisor, finally, oneself? Read
economics, then history, Italian, barely passing one’s exams? Climb the
gateway against which one had an unseaman-like aversion, to visit Bill
Plantagenet in Sherlock Court, and, clutching the wheel of St.
Catherine, feel, for a moment asleep, like Melville, the world hurling
from all havens astern? Ah, the harbour bells of Cambridge! Whose
fountains in moonlight and closed courts and cloisters, whose enduring
beauty in its virtuous remote self-assurance, seemed part, less of the
loud mosaic of one’s stupid life there, though maintained perhaps by the
countless deceitful memories of such lives, than the strange dream of
some old monk, eight hundred years dead, whose forbidding house, reared
upon piles and stakes driven into the marshy ground, had once shone like
a beacon out of the mysterious silence, and solitude of the fens. A
dream jealously guarded: Keep off the Grass. And yet whose unearthly
beauty compelled one to say: God forgive me. While oneself lived in a
disgusting smell of marmalade and old boots, kept by a cripple, in a
hovel near the station yard. Cambridge was the sea reversed; at the same
time a horrible regression; in the strictest sense—despite one’s avowed
popularity, the godsent opportunity—the most appalling of nightmares,
as if a grown man should suddenly wake up, like the ill-fated Mr.
Bultitude in Vice Versa, to be confronted, not by the hazards of
business, but by the geometry lesson he had failed to prepare thirty
years before, and the torments of puberty. Digs and forecastles are
where they are in the heart. Yet the heart sickened at running once more
full tilt into the past, into its very school-close faces, bloated now
like those of the drowned, on gangling overgrown bodies, into everything
all over again one had been at such pains to escape from before, but in
grossly inflated form. And indeed had it not been so, one must still
have been aware of cliques, snobberies, genius thrown into the river,
justice declined a recommendation by the appointments board, earnestness
debagged—giant oafs in pepper-and-salt, mincing like old women, their
only meaning in another war. It was as though that experience of the
sea, also, exaggerated by time, had invested one with the profound inner
maladjustment of the sailor who can never be happy on land. One had
begun, however, to play the guitar more seriously. And once again one’s
best friends were often Jews, often the same Jews who had been at school
with one. It must be admitted they were there first, having been there
off and on since A.D. 1106. But now they seemed almost the only people
_old_ as oneself: only they had any generous, independent sense of
beauty. Only a Jew did not deface the monk’s dream. And somehow only a
Jew, with his rich endowment of premature suffering, could understand
one’s own suffering, one’s isolation, essentially, one’s poor music. So
that in my time and with my aunt’s aid I bought a University weekly.
Avoiding college functions, I became a staunch supporter of Zionism. As
a leader of a band composed largely of Jews, playing at local dances,
and of my own private outfit Three Able Seamen, I amassed a considerable
sum. The beautiful Jewish wife of a visiting American lecturer became my
mistress. I had seduced her too with my guitar. Like Philoctetes’ bow or
Oedipus’ daughter it was my guide and prop. I played it without
bashfulness wherever I went. Nor did it strike me as any less than an
unexpected and useful compliment that Phillipson, the artist, should
have troubled to represent me, in a rival paper, as an immense guitar,
inside which an oddly familiar infant was hiding, curled up, as in a
womb—)

“Of course he was always a great connoisseur of wines.”

“He was beginning to get the wines and the first editions slightly mixed
up in my day.” Hugh shaved adroitly along the edge of his brother’s
beard, past the jugular vein and the carotid artery. “Bring me a bottle
of the very best John Donne, will you, Smithers? . . . You know, some of
the genuine old 1611.”

“God how funny . . . Or isn’t it? The poor Old Crow.”

“He was a marvellous fellow.”

“The best.”

(. . . I have played the guitar before the Prince of Wales, begged in
the streets with one for ex-service men on Armistice Day, performed at a
reception given by the Amundsen society, and to a caucus of the French
Chamber of Deputies as they arranged the approaching years. The Three
Able Seamen achieved meteoric fame, _Metronome_ compared us to Venuti’s
Blue Four. Once the worst possible thing that could befall me seemed
some hand injury. Nevertheless one dreamed frequently of dying, bitten
by lions, in the desert, at the last calling for the guitar, strumming
to the end . . . Yet I stopped of my own accord. Suddenly, less than a
year after going down from Cambridge, stopped, first in bands, then
playing it intimately, stopped so completely that Yvonne, despite the
tenuous bond of being born in Hawaii, doubtless doesn’t know I ever
played, so emphatically no one says any longer: Hugh, where’s your
guitar? Come on and give us a tune—)

“I have,” the Consul said, “a slight confession to make, Hugh . . . I
cheated a little on the strychnine while you were away.”

“Thalavethiparothiam, is it?” Hugh observed, pleasantly menacing. “Or
strength obtained by decapitation. Now then, don’t be careful, as the
Mexicans say, I’m going to shave the back of your neck.”

But first Hugh wiped the razor with some tissue paper, glancing absently
through the door into the Consul’s room. The bedroom windows were wide
open; the curtains blew inward very gently. The wind had almost dropped.
The scents of the garden were heavy about them. Hugh heard the wind
starting to blow again on the other side of the house, the fierce breath
of the Atlantic, flavored with wild Beethoven. But here, on the leeward
side, those trees one could see through the bathroom window seemed
unaware of it. And the curtains were engaged with their own gentle
breeze. Like the crew’s washing on board a tramp steamer, strung over
number six hatch between sleek derricks lying in grooves, that barely
dances in the afternoon sunlight, while abaft the beam not a league away
some pitching native craft with violently flapping sails seems wrestling
a hurricane, they swayed imperceptibly, as to another control . . .

(Why did I stop playing the guitar? Certainly not because, belatedly,
one had come to see the point of Phillipson’s picture, the cruel truth
it contained . . . They are losing the Battle of the Ebro—And yet, one
might well have seen one’s continuing to play but another form of
publicity stunt, a means of keeping oneself in the limelight, as if
those weekly articles for the News of the World were not limelight
enough! Or myself with the thing destined to be some kind of incurable
“love-object,” or eternal troubadour, jongleur, interested only in
married women—why?—incapable finally of love altogether . . . Bloody
little man. Who, anyhow, no longer wrote songs. While the guitar as an
end in itself at last seemed simply futile; no longer even
fun—certainly a childish thing to be put away—)

“Is that right?”

“Is what right?”

“Do you see that poor exiled maple tree outside there,” asked the
Consul, “propped up with those crutches of cedar?”

“No—luckily for you—”

“One of these days, when the wind blows from the other direction, it’s
going to collapse.” The Consul spoke haltingly while Hugh shaved his
neck. “And do you see that sunflower looking in through the bedroom
window? It stares into my room all day.”

“It strolled into your room, do you say?”

“Stares. Fiercely. All day. Like God!”

(The last time I played it . . . Strumming in the King of Bohemia,
London. Benskin’s Fine Ales and Stouts. And waking, after passing out,
to find John and the rest singing unaccompanied that song about the
balgine run. What, anyhow, is a balgine run? Revolutionary songs; bogus
bolshy;—but why had one never heard such songs before? Or, for that
matter, in England, seen such rich spontaneous enjoyment in singing?
Perhaps because at any given gathering, one had always been singing
oneself. Sordid songs: _I Ain’t Got Nobody_. Loveless songs: _The One
That I Love Loves Me_ . . . Though John “and the rest” were not, to
one’s own experience at least, bogus: no more than who, at sunset
walking with the crowd, or receiving bad news, witnessing injustice,
once turned and thought, did not believe, turned back and questioned,
decided to act . . . They are winning the Battle of the Ebro! Not for
me, perhaps. Yet no wonder indeed if these friends, some of whom now lie
dead on Spanish soil, had, as I then understood, really been bored by my
pseudo-American twanging, not even good twanging finally, and had only
been listening out of politeness—twanging—)

“Have another drink.” Hugh replenished the toothmug, handed it to the
Consul, and picked up for him a copy of _El Universal_ lying on the
floor. “I think a little more down the side with that beard, and at the
base of the neck.” Hugh stropped the razor thoughtfully.

“A communal drink.” The Consul passed the toothmug over his shoulder.
“‘Clank of coins irritates at Forth Worth.’” Holding the paper quite
steadily the Consul read aloud from the English page: “‘Kink unhappy in
exile.’ I don’t believe it myself. ‘Town counts dog’s noses.’ I don’t
believe that either, do you Hugh? . . .

“And—ah—yes!” he went on, “‘Eggs have been in a tree at Klamanth Falls
for a hundred years, lumberjacks estimate by rings on wood.’ Is that the
kind of stuff you write nowadays?”

“Almost exactly. Or: Japanese astride all roads from Shanghai. Americans
evacuate . . . That kind of thing.—Sit still.”

(One had not, however, played it from that day to this . . . No, nor
been happy from that day to this either . . . A little self-knowledge is
a dangerous thing. And anyway, without the guitar, was one any less in
the limelight, any less interested in married women—so on, and so
forth? One immediate result of giving it up was undoubtedly that second
trip to sea, that series of articles, the first for the _Globe_, on the
British Coasting Trade. Then yet another trip—coming to naught
spiritually. I ended a passenger. But the articles were a success.
Saltcaked smokestacks. Britannia rules the waves. In future my work was
looked for with interest . . . On the other hand why have I always
lacked real ambition as a newspaperman? Apparently I have never overcome
that antipathy to journalists, the result of my early ardent courtship
of them. Besides it cannot be said I shared with my colleagues the
necessity of earning a living. There was always the income. As a roving
hand I functioned fairly well, still, up to this day, have done so—yet
becoming increasingly conscious of loneliness, isolation—aware too of
an odd habit of thrusting myself to the fore, then subsiding—as if one
remembered one hadn’t the guitar after all . . . Maybe I bored people
with my guitar. But in a sense—who cares?—it strung me to life—)

“Somebody quoted you in the _Universal_,” the Consul was laughing, “some
time ago. I just forget about what, I’m afraid . . . Hugh, how would you
like, ‘at a most modest sacrifice,’ an ‘imported pair embroidered street
extra large nearly new fur coat’?”

“Sit still.”

“Or a Cadillac for 500 pesos. Original price 200 . . . And what would
this mean, do you suppose? ‘And a white horse also.’ Apply at box seven
. . . Strange . . . Anti-alcoholic fish. Don’t like the sound of that.
But here’s something for you. ‘A centricle apartment suitable for love
nest.’ Or alternately, a ‘serious, _discrete_—’”

“—ha—”

“—apartment . . . Hugh, listen to this. ‘For a young European lady who
must be pretty, acquaintanceship with a cultured man, not old, with good
_positions_—’”

The Consul was shaking with laughter only, it appeared, and Hugh,
laughing too, paused, razor aloft.

“But the remains of Juan Ramírez, the famous singer, Hugh, are still
wandering in a melancholy fashion from place to place . . . Hullo, it
says here that ‘grave objections’ have been made to the immodest
behavior of certain police chiefs in Quauhnahuac. ‘Grave objections
to—’ what’s this?—‘performing their private functions in public’—”

(“Climbed the Parson’s Nose,” one had written, in the visitors’ book at
the little Welsh rock-climbing hotel, “in twenty minutes. Found the
rocks very easy.” “Came down the Parson’s Nose,” some immortal wag had
added a day later, “in twenty seconds. Found the rocks very hard.” . . .
So now, as I approach the second half of my life, unheralded, unsung,
and without a guitar, I am going back to sea again: perhaps these days
of waiting are more like that droll descent, to be survived in order to
repeat the climb. At the top of the Parson’s Nose you could walk home to
tea over the hills if you wished, just as the actor in the Passion Play
can get off his cross and go home to his hotel for a Pilsener. Yet in
life ascending or descending you were perpetually involved with the
mists, the cold and the overhangs, the treacherous rope and the slippery
belay; only, while the rope slipped there was sometimes time to laugh.
Nonetheless, I am afraid . . . As I am also of a simple gate, and
climbing windy masts in port . . . Will it be as bad as the first
voyage, the harsh reality of which for some reason suggests Yvonne’s
farm? One wonders how she will feel the first time she sees someone
stick a pig . . . Afraid; and yet not afraid; I know what the sea is
like; can it be that I am returning to it with my dreams intact, nay,
with dreams that, being without viciousness, are more child-like than
before. I love the sea, the pure Norwegian sea. My disillusionment once
more is a pose. What am I trying to prove by all this? Accept it; one is
a sentimentalist, a muddler, a realist, a dreamer, coward, hypocrite,
hero, an Englishman in short, unable to follow out his own metaphors.
Tufthunter and pioneer in disguise. Iconoclast and explorer. Undaunted
bore undone by trivialities! Why, one asks, instead of feeling stricken
in that pub, didn’t I set about learning some of those songs, those
precious revolutionary songs. What is to prevent one’s learning more of
such songs now, new songs, different songs, anyhow, if only to recapture
some early joy in merely singing, and playing the guitar? What have I
got out of my life? Contacts with famous men . . . The occasion Einstein
asked me the time, for instance. That summer evening, strolling toward
the tumultuous kitchen of St. John’s—who is it that behind me has
emerged from the rooms of the Professor living in D4? And who is it also
strolling toward the Porter’s lodge—where, our orbits crossing, asks me
the time? Is this Einstein, up for an honours degree? And who smiles
when I say I don’t know . . . And yet asked me. Yes: the great Jew, who
has upset the whole world’s notions of time and space, once leaned down
over the side of his hammock strung between Aries and the Circlet of the
Western Fish, to ask me, befuddled ex-anti-Semite, and ragged freshman
huddled in his gown at the first approach of the evening star, the time.
And smiled again when I pointed out the clock neither of us had
noticed—)

“—better than having them perform their public functions in private
anyhow, I should have thought,” Hugh said.

“You might have hit on something there. That is, those birds referred to
are not police in the strict sense. As a matter of fact the regular
police here—”

“I know, they’re on strike.”

“So of course they must be democratic from your point of view . . . Just
like the army. All right, it’s a democratic army . . . But meantime
these other cads are throwing their weight about a bit. It’s a pity
you’re leaving. It might have been a story right down your alley. Did
you ever hear of the Union Militar?”

“You mean the pre-war thingmetight, in Spain?”

“I mean here in this state. It’s affiliated to the Military Police, by
which they’re covered, so to speak, because the Inspector General, who
_is_ the Military Police, is a member. So is the Jefe de Jardineros, I
believe.”

“I heard they were putting up a new statue to Díaz in Oaxaca.”

—“Just the same,” pursued the Consul, in a slightly lowered tone, as
their conversation continued in the next room, “there is this Union
Militar, sinarquistas, whatever they’re called, if you’re interested,
I’m not personally—and their headquarters used to be in the policía de
Seguridad here, though it isn’t any longer, but in Parián somewhere, I
heard.”

Finally the Consul was ready. The only further help he had required was
with his socks. Wearing a freshly pressed shirt and a pair of tweed
trousers with the jacket to them Hugh had borrowed and now brought in
from the porch, he stood gazing at himself in the mirror.

It was most surprising, not only did the Consul now appear fresh and
lively but to be dispossessed of any air of dissipation whatsoever.
True, he had not before the haggard look of a depraved worn-out old man:
why should he indeed, when he was only twelve years older than Hugh
himself? Yet it was as though fate had fixed his age at some
unidentifiable moment in the past, when his persistent objective self,
perhaps weary of standing askance and watching his downfall, had at last
withdrawn from him altogether, like a ship secretly leaving harbour at
night. Sinister stories as well as funny and heroic had been told about
his brother, whose own early poetic instincts clearly helped the legend.
It occurred to Hugh that the poor old chap might be, finally, helpless,
in the grip of something against which all his remarkable defences could
avail him little. What use were his talons and fangs to the dying tiger?
In the clutches, say, to make matters worse, of a boa-constrictor? But
apparently this improbable tiger had no intention of dying just yet. On
the contrary, he intended taking a little walk, taking the
boa-constrictor with him, even to pretend, for a while, it wasn’t there.
Indeed, on the face of it, this man of abnormal strength and
constitution and obscure ambition, whom Hugh would never know, could
never deliver nor make agreement to God for, but in his way loved and
desired to help, had triumphantly succeeded in pulling himself together.
While what had given rise to all these reflections was doubtless only
the photograph on the wall both were now studying, whose presence there
at all must surely discount most of those old stories, of a small
camouflaged freighter, at which the Consul suddenly gestured with
replenished toothmug:

“Everything about the _Samaritan_ was a ruse. See those windlasses and
bulkheads. That black entrance that looks as though it might be the
entrance to the forecastle, that’s a shift too—there’s an anti-aircraft
gun stowed away snugly in there. Over there, that’s the way you go down.
Those were my quarters . . . There’s your quartermaster’s alley. That
galley—it could become a battery, before you could say Coclogenus paca
Mexico . . .

“Curiously enough though,” the Consul peered closer, “I cut that picture
out of a German magazine,” and Hugh too was scrutinising the Gothic
writing beneath the photograph: _Der englische Dampfer trägt
Schutzfarben gegen deutsche U-Boote_. “Only on the next page, I recall,
was a picture of the Emden,” the Consul went on, “with ‘So verliess ich
den Weltteil unserer Antipoden,’ something of that nature, under it.
‘Our Antipodes.’” He gave Hugh a sharp glance that might have meant
anything. “Queer people. But I see you’re interested in my old books all
of a sudden . . . Too bad . . . I left my Boehme in Paris.”

“I was just looking.”

At, for God’s sake, _A Treatise of Sulphur, written by Michall
Sandivogius i.e. anagramatically Divi Leschi Genus Amo_: at _The
Hermetical Triumph or the Victorious Philosophical Stone, a Treatise
more compleat and more intelligible than any has been yet, concerning
the Hermetical Magistery_; at _The Secrets Revealed or an Open Entrance
to the Sub-Palace of the King, containing the greatest Treasure in
Chymistry never yet so plainly discovered, composed by a most famous
Englishman styling himself Anonymus or Eyraeneus Philaletha Cosmopolita
who by inspiration and reading attained to the Philosopher’s Stone at
his age of twenty-three years Anno Domini 1645_: at _The Musaeum
Hermeticum, Reformatum et Amplificatum, Omnes Sopho-Spagyricae artis
Discipulos fidelissime erudiens, quo pacto Summa illa vera que Lapidis
Philosophici Medicina, qua res omnes qualemcunque defectum patientes,
instaurantur, inveniri & haberi queat, Continens Tractatus Chimicos xxi
Francofurti, Apud Hermannum à Sande CIƆ IƆC LXXVIII_: at _Sub-Mundanes,
or the Elementaries of the Cabbala, reprinted from the text of the Abbé
de Villars, Physio-Astro-Mystic, with an Illustrative Appendix from the
work Demoniality, wherein is asserted that there are in existence on
earth rational creatures besides men_ . . .

“Are there?” Hugh said, holding in his hand this last extraordinary old
book—from which emanated a venerable and remote smell—and reflecting:
“Jewish knowledge!” while a sudden absurd vision of Mr. Bolowski in
another life, in a caftan, with a long white beard, and skull cap, and
passionate intent look, standing at a stall in a sort of mediaeval New
Compton Street, reading a sheet of music in which the notes were Hebrew
Letters, was conjured to his mind.

“Erekia, the one who tears asunder; and they who shriek with a long
drawn cry, Illirikim; Apelki, the misleaders or turners aside; and those
who attack their prey by tremulous motion, Dresop; ah, and the
distressful painbringing ones, Arekesoli; and one must not forget,
either, Burasin, the destroyers by stifling smoky breath; nor Glesi, the
one who glistens horribly like an insect; nor Effrigis, the one who
quivers in a horrible manner, you’d like Effrigis . . . nor yet the
Mames, those who move by backward motion, nor the movers with a
particular creeping motion, Ramisen . . .” the Consul was saying. “The
flesh inclothed and the evil questioners. Perhaps you would not call
them precisely rational. But all these at one time or another have
visited my bed.”

They had all of them in a tremendous hurry and the friendliest of
humours set off for Tomalín. Hugh, himself somewhat aware of his drinks,
was listening in a dream to the Consul’s voice rambling on—Hitler, he
pursued, as they stepped out into the Calle Nicaragua—which might have
been a story right down his alley, if only he’d shown any interest
before—merely wished to annihilate the Jews in order to obtain just
such arcana as could be found behind them in his bookshelves—when
suddenly in the house the telephone rang.

“No, let it ring,” the Consul said as Hugh started back. It went on
ringing (for Concepta had gone out) the tintinnabulation beating around
the empty rooms like a trapped bird; then it stopped.

As they moved on Yvonne said:

“Why no, Geoff, don’t keep bothering about me, I feel quite rested. But
if Tomalín’s too far for either of you, why don’t we go to the zoo?” She
looked at them both darkly and directly and beautifully with her candid
eyes under the broad brow, eyes with which she did not quite return
Hugh’s smile, though her mouth suggested one. Perhaps she seriously
interpreted Geoff’s flow of conversation as a good sign. And perhaps it
was! Qualifying it with loyal interest, or at a quick preoccupied
tangent with observations upon impersonal change or decay, serapes or
carbon or ice, the weather—where was the wind now? they might have a
nice calm day after all without too much dust—Yvonne, apparently
revived by her swim and taking in everything about her afresh with an
objective eye, walked with swiftness and grace and independence, and as
though really not tired; yet it struck Hugh she walked by herself. Poor
darling Yvonne! Greeting her when she was ready had been like meeting
her once again after long absence, but it was also like parting. For
Hugh’s usefulness was exhausted, their “plot” subtly lamed by small
circumstances, of which not the least was his own continued presence. It
would seem impossible now as their old passion to seek without imposture
to be alone with her, even with Geoff’s interest at heart. Hugh cast a
longing glance down the hill, the way they’d gone this morning. Now they
were hastening in the opposite direction. This morning might have been
already far in the past, like childhood or the days before the last war;
the future was beginning to unwind, the euchred stupid bloody terrific
guitar-playing future. Unsuitably girded against it, Hugh felt, noted
with a reporter’s measure, Yvonne, bare-legged, was wearing instead of
her yellow slacks a white tailored sharkskin suit with one button at the
waist, and beneath it a brilliant high-necked blouse, like a detail in a
Rousseau; the heels of her red shoes clicking laconically on the broken
stones appeared neither flat nor high, and she carried a bright red bag.
Passing her one would not have suspected agony. One would not have
noticed lack of faith, nor questioned that she knew where she was going,
nor wondered if she were walking in her sleep. How happy and pretty she
looks, one would say. Probably she is going to meet her lover in the
Bella Vista!—Women of medium height, slenderly built, mostly divorced,
passionate but envious of the male—angel to him as he is bright or
dark, yet unconscious destructive succubus of his ambitions—American
women, with that rather graceful swift way of walking, with the clean
scrubbed tanned faces of children, the skin finely textured with a satin
sheen, their hair clean and shining as though just washed, and looking
like that, but carelessly done, the slim brown hands that do not rock
the cradle, the slender feet—how many centuries of oppression have
produced them? They do not care who is losing the Battle of the Ebro,
for it is too soon for them to outsnort Job’s warhorse. They see no
significance in it, only fools going to death for a—

“One always heard they had a therapeutic quality. They always had zoos
in Mexico apparently—Moctezuma, courteous fellow, even showed stout
Cortez around a zoo. The poor chap thought he was in the infernal
regions.” The Consul had discovered a scorpion on the wall.

“Alacrán?” Yvonne produced.

“It looks like a violin.”

“A curious bird is the scorpion. He cares not for priest nor for poor
peon . . . It’s really a beautiful creature. Leave him be. He’ll only
sting himself to death anyway.” The Consul swung his stick . . .

They climbed the Calle Nicaragua, always between the parallel swift
streams, past the school with the grey tombstones and the swing like a
gallows, past high mysterious walls, and hedges intertwined with crimson
flowers, among which marmalade-colored birds were trapezing, crying
raucously. Hugh felt glad of his drinks now, remembering from his
boyhood how the last day of the holidays was always worse if you went
anywhere, how then time, that one had hoped to bemuse, would at any
moment begin to glide after you like a shark following a
swimmer.—_¡Box!_ said an advertisement. _Arena Tomalín. El Balón vs. El
Redondillo._ The Balloon vs. the Bouncing Ball—was that? Domingo . . .
But that was for Sunday; while they were only going to a bullthrowing, a
purpose in life whose object was not even worth advertising. 666: also
said further advertisements for an insecticide, obscure yellow tin
plates at the bottom of walls, to the quiet delight of the Consul. Hugh
chuckled to himself. So far the Consul was doing superbly. His few
“necessary drinks,” reasonable or outrageous, had worked wonders. He was
walking magnificently erect, shoulders thrown back, chest out: the best
thing about it was his deceitful air of infallibility, of the
unquestionable, especially when contrasted with what one must look like
oneself in cowboy clothes. In his finely cut tweeds (the coat Hugh had
borrowed was not much crumpled, and now Hugh had borrowed another one)
and blue and white striped old Chagfordian tie, with the barbering Hugh
had given him, his thick fair hair neatly slicked back, his freshly
trimmed brownish greying beard, his stick, his dark glasses, who would
say that he was not, unmistakably, a figure of complete respectability?
And if this respectable figure, the Consul might have been saying,
appeared to be undergoing from time to time a slight nutation, what of
it? who noticed? It might be—for an Englishman in a foreign country
always expects to meet another Englishman—merely of nautical origin. If
not, his limp, obviously the result of an elephant hunt or an old brush
with Pathans, excused it. The typhoon spun invisibly in the midst of a
tumult of broken pavements: who was aware of its existence, let alone
what landmarks in the brain it had destroyed? Hugh was laughing.

                  “_Plingen plangen, aufgefangen_
                  _Swingen swangen at my side,_
                  _Pootle swootle, off to Bootle,_
                  _Nemesis, a pleasant ride._”

said the Consul mysteriously, and added with heroism, glancing about
him:

“It’s really an extraordinarily nice day to take a trip.”

_No se permite fijar anuncios . . ._

Yvonne was in fact walking alone now: they climbed in a sort of single
file, Yvonne ahead, the Consul and Hugh unevenly behind, and whatever
their collective distraught soul might be thinking Hugh was oblivious of
it, for he had become involved with a fit of laughing, which the Consul
was trying not to find infectious. They walked in this manner because a
boy was driving some cows past them down the hill, half running; and, as
in a dream of a dying Hindu, steering them by their tails. Now there
were some goats. Yvonne turned and smiled at him. But these goats were
meek and sweet-looking, jangling little bells. _Father is waiting for
you though. Father has not forgotten._ Behind the goats a woman with a
black clenched face staggered past them under the weight of a basket
loaded with carbon. A peon loped after her down the hill balancing a
large barrel of ice cream on his head and calling apparently for
customers, with what hope of success one could not imagine, since he
seemed so burdened as to be unable either to look from side to side or
to halt.

“It’s true that at Cambridge,” the Consul was saying, tapping Hugh on
the shoulder, “you may have learned about Guelphs and so on . . . But
did you know that no angel with six wings is ever transformed?”

“I seem to have learned that no bird ever flew with one—”

“Or that Thomas Burnet, author of the Telluris Theoria Sacra entered
Christs in—Cáscaras! Caracoles! Virgen Santísima! Ave María! Fuego,
fuego! Ay, qué me matan!”

With a shattering and fearful tumult a plane slammed down upon them,
skimmed the frightened trees, zooming, narrowly missed a mirador, and
was gone the next moment, headed in the direction of the volcanoes, from
which rolled again the monotonous sound of artillery.

“Acabóse,” sighed the Consul.

Hugh suddenly noticed that a tall man (who must have stepped out of the
side road Yvonne had seemed anxious they should take) with sloping
shoulders and handsome, rather swarthy features, though he was obviously
a European, doubtless in some state of exile, was confronting them, and
it was as though the whole of this man, by some curious fiction, reached
up to the crown of his perpendicularly raised Panama hat, for the gap
below seemed to Hugh still occupied by something, a sort of halo or
spiritual property of his body, or the essence of some guilty secret
perhaps that he kept under the hat but which was now momentarily
exposed, fluttering and embarrassed. He was confronting them, though
smiling, it appeared, at Yvonne alone, his blue, bold protuberant eyes
expressing an incredulous dismay, his black eyebrows frozen in a
comedian’s arch: he hesitated: then this man, who wore his coat open and
trousers very high over a stomach they had probably been designed to
conceal but merely succeeded in giving the character of an independent
tumescence of the lower part of his body, came forward with eyes
flashing and mouth under its small black moustache curved in a smile at
once false and engaging, yet somehow protective—and somehow, also,
increasingly grave—came forward as it were impelled by clockwork, hand
out, automatically ingratiating:

“Why Yvonne, what a delightful surprise. Why goodness me, I thought; oh,
hullo, old bean—”

“Hugh, this is Jacques Laruelle,” the Consul was saying, “You’ve
probably heard me speak about him at one time or another. Jacques, my
young brother Hugh: ditto . . . Il vient d’arriver . . . or vice versa.
How goes it, Jacques? You look as though you needed a drink rather
badly.”

“—”

“—”

A minute later M. Laruelle, whose name struck only a very distant chord
for Hugh, had taken Yvonne’s arm and was walking in the middle of the
road with her up the hill. Probably there was no significance in this.
But the Consul’s introduction had been brusque to say the least. Hugh
himself felt half hurt and whatever the cause, a slight appalling sense
of tension as the Consul and he slowly fell behind again. Meantime M.
Laruelle was saying:

“Why do we not all drop into my ‘madhouse’; that would be good fun,
don’t you think Geoffrey—ah—ah—Hugues?”

“No,” softly remarked the Consul, behind, to Hugh, who on the other hand
now felt almost disposed to laugh once more. For the Consul was also
saying something cloacal very quietly to himself over and over again.
They were following Yvonne and her friend through the dust which now,
chased by a lonely gust of wind, was moving along with them up the road,
sizzling in petulant groundswirls to blow away like rain. When the wind
died away the water rushing headlong down the gutters here was like a
sudden force in the opposite direction.

M. Laruelle was saying attentively, ahead of them, to Yvonne:

“Yes . . . Yes . . . But your bus won’t leave till two-thirty. You have
over an hour.”

—“But that does sound like an unusual bloody miracle,” Hugh said. “You
mean after all these years—”

“Yeah. It was a great coincidence our meeting here,” the Consul told
Hugh in a changed even tone. “But I really think you two ought to get
together, you have something in common. Seriously you might enjoy his
house, it’s always mildly amusing.”

“Good,” said Hugh.

“Why, here comes the cartero,” Yvonne called out ahead, half turning
round and disengaging her arm from M. Laruelle’s. She was pointing to
the corner on the left at the top of the hill where the Calle Nicaragua
met the Calle Tierra del Fuego. “He’s simply amazing,” she was saying
volubly. “The funny thing is that all the postmen in Quauhnahuac look
exactly alike. Apparently they’re all from the same family and have been
postmen for positively generations. I think this one’s grandfather was a
cartero at the time of Maximilian. Isn’t it delightful to think of the
post-office collecting all these grotesque little creatures like so many
carrier pigeons to dispatch at their will?”

Why are you so voluble? Hugh wondered: “How delightful, for the
post-office,” he said politely. They were all watching the cartero’s
approach. Hugh happened not to have observed any of these unique postmen
before. He could not have been five feet in height, and from a distance
appeared like an unclassifiable but somehow pleasing animal advancing on
all fours. He was wearing a colourless dungaree suit and a battered
official cap and Hugh now saw he had a tiny goatee beard. Upon his small
wizened face as he lunged down the street toward them in his inhuman yet
endearing fashion there was the friendliest expression imaginable.
Seeing them he stopped, unshouldered the bag and began to unbuckle it.

“There is a letter, a letter, a letter,” he was saying when they came up
with him, bowing to Yvonne as if he’d last greeted her yesterday, “a
message por el señor, for your horse,” he informed the Consul,
withdrawing two packages and smiling roguishly as he undid them.

“What?—nothing for Señor Calígula.”

“Ah.” The cartero flicked through another bundle, glancing at them
sideways and keeping his elbows close to his sides in order not to drop
the bag. “No.” He put down the bag now altogether, and began to search
feverishly; soon letters were spread all over the road. “It must be.
Here. No. This is. Then this one. Ei ei ei ei ei ei.”

“Don’t bother, my dear fellow,” the Consul said. “Please.”

But the cartero tried again: “Badrona, Diosdado—”

Hugh too was waiting expectantly, not so much any word from the Globe,
which would come if at all by cable, but half in hope, a hope which the
postman’s own appearance rendered delightfully plausible, of another
minuscule Oaxaqueñan envelope, covered with bright stamps of archers
shooting at the sun, from Juan Cerillo. He listened; somewhere, behind a
wall, someone was playing a guitar—badly, he was let down; and a dog
barked sharply.

“—Feeshbank, Figueroa, Gómez—no, Quincey, Sandovah, no.”

At last the good little man gathered up his letters and bowing
apologetically, disappointedly, lunged off down the street again. They
were all looking after him, and just as Hugh was wondering whether the
postman’s behavior might not have been part of some enormous
inexplicable private joke, if really he’d been laughing at them the
whole time, though in the kindliest way, he halted, fumbled once more at
one of the packages, turned, and trotting back with little yelps of
triumph, handed the Consul what looked like a postal card.

Yvonne, a little ahead again by now, nodded at him over her shoulder,
smiling, as to say: “Good, you’ve got a letter after all,” and with her
buoyant dancing steps walked on slowly beside M. Laruelle, up the dusty
hill.

The Consul turned the card over twice, then handed it to Hugh.

“Strange—” he said.

—It was from Yvonne herself and apparently written at least a year ago.
Hugh suddenly realised it must have been posted soon after she’d left
the Consul and most probably in ignorance he proposed to remain in
Quauhnahuac. Yet curiously it was the card that had wandered far afield:
originally addressed to Wells Fargo in Mexico City, it had been
forwarded by some error abroad, gone badly astray in fact, for it was
date-stamped from Paris, Gibraltar, and even Algeciras, in fascist
Spain.

“No, read it,” the Consul smiled.

Yvonne’s scrawl ran: “_Darling, why did I leave? Why did you let me?
Expect to arrive in the U.S. to-morrow, California two days later. Hope
to find a word from you there waiting. Love. Y._”

Hugh turned the card over. There was a picture of the leonine Signal
Peak on El Paso with Carlsbad Cavern Highway leading over a white-fenced
bridge between desert and desert. The road turned a little corner in the
distance and vanished.




                                  VII


ON the side of the drunken madly revolving world hurtling at 1:20 P.M.
toward Hercules’ Butterfly the house seemed a bad idea, the Consul
thought—

There were two towers, Jacques’ zacualis, one at each end and joined by
a catwalk over the roof, which was the glassed-in gable of the studio
below. These towers were as if camouflaged (almost like the _Samaritan_,
in fact): blue, grey, purple, vermilion, had once been slashed on in
zebra stripes. But time and weather had combined to render the effect
from a short distance of a uniform dull mauve. Their tops, reached from
the catwalk by twin wooden ladders, and from inside by two spiral
staircases, made two flimsy crenellated miradors, each scarcely larger
than a bartizan, tiny roofless variants of the observation posts which
everywhere commanded the valley in Quauhnahuac.

On the battlements of the mirador to their left, as the Consul and Hugh
confronted the house, with the Calle Nicaragua stretching downhill to
their right, now appeared to them two bilious-looking angels. The
angels, carved out of pink stone, knelt facing one another in profile
against the sky across the intervening crenels, while behind, upon
corresponding merlons at the far side, sat solemnly two nameless objects
like marzipan cannonballs, evidently constructed from the same material.

The other mirador was unadorned save by its crenellations and it often
struck the Consul that this contrast was somehow obscurely appropriate
to Jacques, as indeed was that between the angels and the cannonballs.
It was perhaps also significant he should use his bedroom for working
whereas the studio itself on the main floor had been turned into a
dining room often no better than a camping ground for his cook and her
relatives.

Coming closer it could be seen that on the left and somewhat larger
tower, below that bedroom’s two windows—which, as if degenerate
machicolations, were built askew, like the separated halves of a
chevron—a panel of rough stone, covered with large letters painted in
gold leaf, had been slightly set into the wall to give a semblance of
bas-relief. These gold letters though very thick were merged together
most confusingly. The Consul had noticed visitors to the town staring up
at them for half an hour at a time. Sometimes M. Laruelle would come out
to explain they really spelt something, that they formed that phrase of
Frey Luis de León’s the Consul did not at this moment allow himself to
recall. Nor did he ask himself why he should have come to be almost more
familiar with this extraordinary house than his own as, preceding M.
Laruelle now, who was prodding him cheerfully from behind, he followed
Hugh and Yvonne into it, into the studio, empty for once, and up the
spiral staircase of its left-hand tower. “Haven’t we overshot the
drinks?” he asked, his mood of detachment expiring now he remembered
that only a few weeks before he’d sworn never to enter this place again.

“Don’t you ever think of anything else?” it seemed Jacques had said.

The Consul made no reply but stepped out into the familiar disorderly
room with the askew windows, the degenerate machicolations, now seen
from inside, and followed the others obliquely through it to a balcony
at the back, into a view of sun-filled valleys and volcanoes, and cloud
shadows wheeling across the plain.

M. Laruelle, however, was already nervously going downstairs. “Not for
me!” protested the others. Fools! The Consul took two or three steps
after him, a movement apparently without meaning, but it almost
constituted a threat: his gaze shifted vaguely up the spiral staircase
which continued from the room to the mirador above, then he rejoined
Hugh and Yvonne on the balcony.

“Get up on the roof, you people, or stay on the porch, just make
yourselves at home,” came from downstairs. “There’s a pair of binoculars
on the table there—er—Hugues . . . I won’t be a minute.”

“Any objection if I go on the roof?” Hugh asked them.

“Don’t forget the binoculars!”

Yvonne and the Consul were alone on the flying balcony. From where they
stood the house seemed situated halfway up a cliff rising steeply from
the valley stretched out below them. Leaning round they saw the town
itself, built as on top of this cliff, overhanging them. The clubs of
flying machines waved silently over the roofs, their motions like
gesticulations of pain. But the cries and music of the fair reached them
at this moment clearly. Far away the Consul made out a green corner, the
golf course, with little figures working their way round the side of the
cliff, crawling . . . Golfing scorpions. The Consul remembered the card
in his pocket, and apparently he had made a movement toward Yvonne,
desiring to tell her about it, to say something tender to her concerning
it, to turn her towards him, to kiss her. Then he realised that without
another drink shame for this morning would prevent his looking in her
eyes. “What do you think, Yvonne,” he said, “with your astronomical
mind—” Could it be he, talking to her like this, on an occasion like
this! Surely not, it was a dream. He was pointing up at the town.
“—With your astronomical mind,” he repeated, but no, he had not said
it: “doesn’t all that revolving and plunging up there somehow suggest to
you the voyaging of unseen planets, of unknown moons hurling backwards?”
He had said nothing.

“Please Geoffrey—” Yvonne laid her hand on his arm. “Please, please
believe me, I didn’t want to be drawn into this. Let’s make some excuse
and get away as quickly as possible . . . I don’t mind how many drinks
you have _after_,” she added.

“I wasn’t aware I’d said anything about drinks now or after. It’s you
that have put the thought into my head. Or Jacques, whom I can hear
breaking—or should we say, crushing?—the ice down below.”

“Haven’t you got any tenderness or love left for me at all?” Yvonne
asked suddenly, almost piteously, turning round on him, and he thought:
Yes, I do love you, I have all the love in the world left for you, only
that love seems so far away from me and so strange too, for it is as
though I could almost hear it, a droning or a weeping, but far, far
away, and a sad lost sound, it might be either approaching or receding,
I can’t tell which. “Don’t you think of anything except of how many
drinks you’re going to have?”

“Yes,” said the Consul (but wasn’t it Jacques who’d just asked him
this?), “yes, I do—oh my God, Yvonne!”

“Please, Geoffrey—”

Yet he could not face her. The clubs of the flying machines seen out of
the corner of his eye, now seemed as if belabouring him all over.
“Listen,” he said, “are you asking me to extricate us from all this, or
are you starting to exhort me again about drinking.”

“Oh, I’m not exhorting you, really I’m not. I’ll never exhort you again.
I’ll do anything you ask.”

“Then—” he had begun in anger.

But a look of tenderness came over Yvonne’s face and the Consul thought
once more of the postcard in his pocket. It ought to have been a good
omen. It could be the talisman of their immediate salvation now. Perhaps
it would have been a good omen if only it had arrived yesterday or at
the house this morning. Unfortunately one could not now conceive of it
as having arrived at any other moment. And how could he know whether it
was a good omen or not without another drink?

“But I’m back,” she was apparently saying. “Can’t you see it? We’re here
together again, it’s _us_. Can’t you see that?” Her lips were trembling,
she was almost crying.

Then she was close to him, in his arms, but he was gazing over her head.

“Yes, I can see,” he said, only he couldn’t see, only hear, the droning,
the weeping, and feel, feel the unreality. “I do love you. Only—” “I
can never forgive you deeply enough”: was that what was in his mind to
add?

—And yet, he was thinking all over again, and all over again as for the
first time, how he had suffered, suffered, suffered without her; indeed
such desolation, such a desperate sense of abandonment, bereavement, as
during this last year without Yvonne, he had never known in his life,
unless it was when his mother died. But this present emotion he had
never experienced with his mother: this urgent desire to hurt, to
provoke, at a time when forgiveness alone could save the day, this,
rather, had commenced with his stepmother, so that she would have to
cry:—“I can’t eat, Geoffrey, the food sticks in my throat!” It was hard
to forgive, hard, hard to forgive. Harder still, not to say how hard it
was, _I hate you_. Even now, of all times. Even though here was God’s
moment, the chance to agree, to produce the card, to change everything;
or there was but a moment left . . . Too late. The Consul had controlled
his tongue. But he felt his mind divide and rise, like the two halves of
a counterpoised drawbridge, ticking, to permit passage of these noisome
thoughts. “Only my heart—” he said.

“Your heart, darling?” she asked anxiously.

“Nothing—”

“Oh my poor sweetheart, you must be so weary!”

“Momentito,” he said, disengaging himself.

He strolled back into Jacques’ room, leaving Yvonne on the porch.
Laruelle’s voice floated up from downstairs. Was it here he had been
betrayed? This very room, perhaps, had been filled with her cries of
love. Books (among which he did not see his Elizabethan plays) were
strewn all over the floor and on the side of the studio couch nearest
the wall, were stacked, as by some half-repenting poltergeist, almost to
the ceiling. What if Jacques, approaching his design with Tarquin’s
ravishing strides, had disturbed this potential avalanche! Grisly Orozco
charcoal drawings, of an unexampled horrendousness, snarled down from
the walls. In one, executed by a hand of indisputable genius, harpies
grappled on a smashed bedstead among broken bottles of tequila, gnashing
their teeth. No wonder; the Consul, peering closer, sought in vain for a
sound bottle. He sought in vain around Jacques’ room too. There were two
ruddy Riveras. Expressionless Amazons with feet like legs of mutton
testified to the oneness of the toilers with the earth. Over the
chevron-shaped windows, which looked down the Calle Tierra del Fuego,
hung a terrifying picture he hadn’t seen before, and took at first to be
a tapestry. Called “Los Borrachones”—why not Los Borrachos?—it
resembled something between a primitive and a prohibitionist poster,
remotely under the influence of Michelangelo. In fact, he now saw, it
really amounted to a prohibitionist poster, though of a century or so
back, half a century, God knows what period. Down, headlong into hades,
selfish and florid-faced, into a tumult of fire-spangled fiends,
Medusae, and belching monstrosities, with swallow dives or awkwardly,
with dread backward leaps, shrieking among falling bottles and emblems
of broken hopes, plunged the drunkards; up, up, flying palely,
selflessly into the light toward heaven, soaring sublimely in pairs,
male sheltering female, shielded themselves by angels with abnegating
wings, shot the sober. Not all were in pairs however, the Consul noted.
A few lone females on the upgrade were sheltered by angels only. It
seemed to him these females were casting half-jealous glances downward
after their plummeting husbands, some of whose faces betrayed the most
unmistakable relief. The Consul laughed, a trifle shakily. It was
ridiculous, but still—had anyone ever given a good reason why good and
evil should not be thus simply delimited? Elsewhere in Jacques’ room
cuneiform stone idols squatted like bulbous infants: on one side of the
room there was even a line of them chained together. One part of the
Consul continued to laugh, in spite of himself, and all this evidence of
lost wild talents, at the thought of Yvonne confronted in the aftermath
of her passion by a whole row of fettered babies.

“How are you getting on up there, Hugh?” he called up the staircase.

“I think I’ve got Parián in pretty good focus.”

Yvonne was reading on the balcony, and the Consul gazed back at Los
Borrachones. Suddenly he felt something never felt before with such
shocking certainty. It was that he was in hell himself. At the same time
he became possessed of a curious calm. The inner ferment within him, the
squalls and eddies of nervousness, were held again in check. He could
hear Jacques moving downstairs and soon he would have another drink.
That would help, but it was not the thought which calmed him.
Parián—the Farolito! he said to himself. The Lighthouse, the lighthouse
that invites the storm, and lights it! After all, sometime during the
day, when they were at the bullthrowing perhaps, he might break away
from the others and go there, if only for five minutes, if only for one
drink. That prospect filled him with an almost healing love and at this
moment, for it was part of the calm, the greatest longing he had ever
known. The Farolito! It was a strange place, a place really of the late
night and early dawn, which as a rule, like that one other terrible
cantina in Oaxaca, did not open till four o’clock in the morning. But
to-day being the holiday for the dead it would not close. At first it
had appeared to him tiny. Only after he had grown to know it well had he
discovered how far back it ran, that it was really composed of numerous
little rooms, each smaller and darker than the last, opening one into
another, the last and darkest of all being no larger than a cell. These
rooms struck him as spots where diabolical plots must be hatched,
atrocious murders planned; here, as when Saturn was in Capricorn, life
reached bottom. But here also great wheeling thoughts hovered in the
brain; while the potter and the field-laborer alike, early-risen, paused
a moment in the paling doorway, dreaming . . . He saw it all now, the
enormous drop on one side of the cantina into the barranca that
suggested Kubla Khan: the proprietor, Ramón Diosdado, known as the
Elephant, who was reputed to have murdered his wife to cure her
neurasthenia, the beggars, hacked by war and covered with sores, one of
whom one night after four drinks from the Consul had taken him for the
Christ, and falling down on his knees before him, had pinned swiftly
under his coat-lapel two medallions, joined to a tiny worked bleeding
heart like a pincushion, portraying the Virgin of Guadalupe. “I ah give
you the Saint!” He saw all this, feeling the atmosphere of the cantina
enclosing him already with its certainty of sorrow and evil, and with
its certainty of something else too, that escaped him. But he knew: it
was peace. He saw the dawn again, watched with lonely anguish from that
open door, in the violet-shaded light, a slow bomb bursting over the
Sierra Madre—_Sonnenaufgang!_—the oxen harnessed to their carts with
wooden disc wheels patiently waiting outside for their drivers, in the
sharp cool pure air of heaven. The Consul’s longing was so great his
soul was locked with the essence of the place as he stood and he was
gripped by thoughts like those of the mariner who, sighting the faint
beacon of Start Point after a long voyage, knows that soon he will
embrace his wife.

Then they returned to Yvonne abruptly. Had he really forgotten her, he
wondered. He looked round the room again. Ah, in how many rooms, upon
how many studio couches, among how many books, had they found their own
love, their marriage, their life together, a life which, in spite of its
many disasters, its total calamity indeed—and in spite too of any
slight element of falsehood in its inception on her side, her marriage
partly into the past, into her Anglo-Scottish ancestry, into the
visioned empty ghost-whistling castles in Sutherland, into an emanation
of gaunt lowland uncles chumbling shortbread at six o’clock in the
morning—had not been without triumph. Yet for how brief a time. Far too
soon it had begun to seem too much of a triumph, it had been too good,
too horribly unimaginable to lose, impossible finally to bear: it was as
if it had become itself its own foreboding that it could not last, a
foreboding that was like a presence too, turning his steps towards the
taverns again. And how could one begin all over again, as though the
Café Chagrin, the Farolito, had never been? Or without them? Could one
be faithful to Yvonne and the Farolito both?—Christ, oh pharos of the
world, how, and with what blind faith, could one find one’s way back,
fight one’s way back, now, through the tumultuous horrors of five
thousand shattering awakenings, each more frightful than the last, from
a place where even love could not penetrate, and save in the thickest
flames there was no courage? On the wall the drunks eternally plunged.
But one of the little Mayan idols seemed to be weeping . . .

“Ei ei ei ei,” M. Laruelle was saying, not unlike the little postman,
coming, stamping up the stairs; cocktails, despicable repast.
Unperceived the Consul did an odd thing; he took the postcard he’d just
received from Yvonne and slipped it under Jacques’ pillow. She emerged
from the balcony. “Hullo, Yvonne, where is Hugh—sorry I’ve been so
long. Let’s go on the roof, shall we?” Jacques continued.

Actually all the Consul’s reflections had not occupied seven minutes.
Still, Laruelle seemed to have been away longer. He saw, following them,
following the drinks up the spiral staircase, that in addition to the
cocktail shaker and glasses there were canapés and stuffed olives on the
tray. Perhaps despite all his seductive aplomb, Jacques had really gone
downstairs frightened by the whole business and completely beside
himself. While these elaborate preparations were merely the excuse for
his flight. Perhaps also it was quite true, the poor fellow had really
loved Yvonne—“Oh, God,” the Consul said, reaching the mirador, to which
Hugh had almost simultaneously ascended, climbing, as they approached,
the last rungs of the wooden ladder from the catwalk, “God, that the
dream of dark magician in his visioned cave, even while his hand shakes
in its last decay—that’s the bit I like—were the true end of this so
lousy world . . . You shouldn’t have gone to all this trouble, Jacques.”

He took the binoculars from Hugh, and now, his drink upon a vacant
merlon between the marzipan objects, he gazed steadily over the country.
But oddly he had not touched this drink. And the calm mysteriously
persisted. It was as if they were standing on a lofty golf-tee
somewhere. What a beautiful hole this would make, from here to a green
out into those trees on the other side of the barranca, that natural
hazard which some hundred and fifty yards away could be carried by a
good full spoon shot, soaring . . . Plock. The Golgotha Hole. High up,
an eagle drove downwind in one. It had shown lack of imagination to
build the local course back up there, remote from the barranca. Golf =
gouffre = gulf. Prometheus would retrieve lost balls. And on that other
side what strange fairways could be contrived, crossed by lone railway
lines, humming with telegraph poles, glistening with crazy lies on
embankments, over the hills and far away, like youth, like life itself,
the course plotted all over these plains, extending far beyond Tomalín,
through the jungle, to the Farolito, the nineteenth hole . . . The Case
is Altered.

“No, Hugh,” he said, adjusting the lenses but without turning round,
“Jacques means the film he made out of _Alastor_ before he went to
Hollywood, which he shot in a bathtub, what he could of it, and
apparently stuck the rest together with sequences of ruins cut out of
old travelogues, and a jungle hoiked out of _In dunkelste Afrika_, and a
swan out of the end of some old Corinne Griffith—Sarah Bernhardt, she
was in it too, I understand, while all the time the poet was standing on
the shore, and the orchestra was supposed to be doing its best with the
Sacre du Printemps. I think I forgot the fog.”

Their laughter somewhat cleared the air.

“But beforehand you do have certain _wisions_, as a German director
friend of mine used to say, of what your film should be like,” Jacques
was telling them, behind him, over by the angels. “But afterwards, that
is another story . . . As for the fog, that is after all the cheapest
commodity in any studio.”

“Didn’t you make any films in Hollywood?” Hugh asked, who a moment ago
had almost drifted into a political argument with M. Laruelle.

“Yes . . . But I refuse to see them.”

But what on earth was he, the Consul, the Consul wondered, continuing to
look for out there on those plains, in that tumulose landscape, through
Jacques’ binoculars? Was it for some figment of himself, who had once
enjoyed such a simple healthy stupid good thing as golf, as blind holes,
for example, driving up into a high wilderness of sand dunes, yes, once
with Jacques himself? To climb, and then to see, from an eminence, the
ocean with the smoke on the horizon, then, far below, resting near the
pin on the green, his new Silver King, twinkling. Ozone!—The Consul
could no longer play golf: his few efforts of recent years had proved
disastrous . . . I should have become a sort of Donne of the fairways at
least. Poet of the unreplaced turf.—Who holds the flag while I hole out
in three? Who hunts my Zodiac Zone along the shore? And who, upon that
last and final green, though I hole out in four, accepts my ten and
three score . . . Though I have more. The Consul dropped the glasses at
last and turned round. And still he had not touched his drink.

“Alastor, Alastor,” Hugh strolled over to him saying. “Who is, was, why,
and/or wrote Alastor, anyway?”

“Percy Bysshe Shelley.” The Consul leaned against the mirador beside
Hugh. “Another fellow with ideas . . . The story I like about Shelley is
the one where he just let himself sink to the bottom of the sea—taking
several books with him of course—and just stayed there, rather than
admit he couldn’t swim.”

“Geoffrey, don’t you think Hugh ought to see something of the fiesta,”
suddenly Yvonne was saying from the other side, “since it’s his last
day? Especially if there’s native dancing?”

So it was Yvonne who was “extricating them from all this,” just when the
Consul was proposing to stay. “I wouldn’t know,” he said. “Won’t we get
native dancing and things in Tomalín? Would you like to, Hugh?”

“Sure. Of course. Anything you say.” Hugh got down awkwardly from the
parapet. “There’s still about an hour before the bus leaves, isn’t
there?”

“I’m sure Jacques will forgive us if we rush off,” Yvonne was saying
almost desperately.

“Let me see you downstairs safely then.” Jacques controlled his voice.
“It’s too early for the fête to be very much but you ought to see
Rivera’s murals, Hugues, if you haven’t already.”

“Aren’t you coming, Geoffrey?” Yvonne turned on the staircase. “Please
come,” her eyes said.

“Well, fiestas aren’t my strong suit. You run along and I’ll meet you at
the terminal in time for the bus. I have to talk to Jacques here
anyway.”

But they had all gone downstairs and the Consul was alone on the
mirador. And yet not alone. For Yvonne had left a drink on the merlon by
the angels, poor Jacques’ was in one of the crenels, Hugh’s was on the
side parapet. And the cocktail shaker was not empty. Moreover the Consul
had not touched his own drink. And still, now, he did not drink. The
Consul felt with his right hand his left bicep under his coat.
Strength—of a kind—but how to give oneself courage? That fine droll
courage of Shelley’s; no, that was pride. And pride bade one go on,
either go on and kill oneself, or “straighten out,” as so often before,
by oneself, with the aid of thirty bottles of beer and staring at the
ceiling. But this time it was very different. What if courage here
implied admission of total defeat, admission that one couldn’t swim,
admission indeed (though just for a second the thought was not too bad)
into a sanitorium? No, to whatever end, it wasn’t merely a matter of
being “got away.” No angels nor Yvonne nor Hugh could help him here. As
for the demons, they were inside him as well as outside; quiet at the
moment—taking their siesta perhaps—he was nonetheless surrounded by
them and occupied; they were in possession. The Consul looked at the
sun. But he had lost the sun: it was not his sun. Like the truth, it was
well-nigh impossible to face; he did not want to go anywhere near it,
least of all, sit in its light, facing it. “Yet I shall face it.” How?
When he not only lied to himself, but himself believed the lie and lied
back again to those lying factions, among whom was not even their own
honour. There was not even a consistent basis to his self-deceptions.
How should there be then to his attempts at honesty? “Horror,” he said.
“Yet I will not give in.” But who was I, how find that I, where had “I”
gone? “Whatever I do, it shall be deliberately.” And deliberately, it
was true, the Consul still refrained from touching his drink. “The will
of man is unconquerable.” Eat? I should eat. So the Consul ate half a
canapé. And when M. Laruelle returned the Consul was still gazing
drinklessly—where was he gazing? He didn’t know himself. “Do you
remember when we went to Cholula,” he said, “how much dust there was?”

The two men faced each other in silence. “I don’t want to speak to you
at all really,” the Consul added after a moment. “For that matter I
wouldn’t mind if this was the last time I ever saw you . . . Did you
hear me?”

“Have you gone mad?” M. Laruelle exclaimed at last. “Am I to understand
that your wife has come back to you, something I have seen you praying
and howling for under the table—really under the table . . . And that
you treat her indifferently as this, and still continue only to care
where the next drink’s coming from?”

To this unanswerable and staggering injustice the Consul had no word; he
reached for his cocktail, he held it, smelt it: but somewhere, where it
would do little good, a hawser did not give way: he did not drink; he
almost smiled pleasantly at M. Laruelle. You might as well start now as
later, refusing the drinks. You might as well start now; as later.
Later.

The phone rang out and M. Laruelle ran down the staircase. The Consul
sat with his face buried in his hands a while, then, leaving his drink
still untouched, leaving, yes, all the drinks untouched, he descended to
Jacques’ room.

M. Laruelle hung up the phone: “Well,” he said, “I didn’t know you two
were acquainted.” He took off his coat and began to undo his tie. “That
was my doctor, asking about _you_. He wants to know if you are not dead
already.”

“Oh . . . Oh, that was Vigil, was it?”

“Arturo Díaz Vigil. Médico. Cirujano . . . Et cetera!”

“Ah,” the Consul said guardedly, running his finger round the inside of
his collar. “Yes. I met him for the first time last night. As a matter
of fact he was along at my house this morning.”

M. Laruelle discarded his shirt thoughtfully, saying: “We’re getting in
a set before he goes on his holiday.”

The Consul, sitting down, imagined that weird gusty game of tennis under
the hard Mexican sunlight, the tennis balls tossed in a sea of
error—hard going for Vigil, but what would he care (and who was
Vigil?—the good fellow seemed by now unreal to him as some figure one
would forbear to greet for fear he was not your acquaintance of the
morning, so much as the living double of the actor seen on the screen
that afternoon) while the other prepared to enter a shower which, with
that queer architectural disregard for decorum exhibited by a people who
value decorum above all else, was built in a little recess splendidly
visible from both the balcony and the head of the staircase.

“He wants to know if you have changed your mind, if you and Yvonne will
ride with him to Guanajuato after all . . . Why don’t you?”

“How did he know I was here?” The Consul sat up, shaking a little again,
though amazed for an instant at his mastery of the situation, that here
it turned out there actually _was_ someone named Vigil, who had invited
one to come to Guanajuato.

“How? How else . . . I told him. It’s a pity you didn’t meet him long
ago. That man might really be of some help to you.”

“You might find . . . You can be of some help to him to-day.” The Consul
closed his eyes, hearing the doctor’s voice again distinctly: “But now
that your esposa has come back. But now that your esposa has come back
. . . I would work you with.” “What?” He opened his eyes . . . But the
abominable impact on his whole being at this moment of the fact that
that hideously elongated cucumiform bundle of blue nerves and gills
below the steaming unselfconscious stomach had sought its pleasure in
his wife’s body brought him trembling to his feet. How loathsome, how
incredibly loathsome was reality. He began to walk around the room, his
knees giving way every step with a jerk. Books, too many books. The
Consul still didn’t see his Elizabethan plays. Yet there was everything
else, from Les joyeuses bourgeoises de Windsor to Agrippa d’Aubigné and
Collin d’Harleville, from Shelley to Touchard—Lafosse and Tristan
l’Hermite. Beaucoup de bruit pour rien! Might a soul bathe there or
quench its draught? It might. Yet in none of these books would one find
one’s own suffering. Nor could they show you how to look at an ox-eye
daisy. “But what could have made you tell Vigil I was here, if you
didn’t know he knew me?” he asked, almost with a sob.

M. Laruelle, overpowered by steam, explanatory fingers in his ears,
hadn’t heard: “What did you find to talk about, you two? Vigil and
yourself?”

“Alcohol. Insanity. Medullary compression of the gibbus. Our agreements
were more or less bilateral.” The Consul, shaking frankly now, normally,
peered out through the open doors of the balcony at the volcanoes over
which once more hovered puffs of smoke, accompanied by the rattle of
musketry; and once he cast a passionate glance up at the mirador, where
his untouched drinks lay. “Mass reflexes, but only the erections of
guns, disseminating death,” he said, noticing too that the sounds of the
fair were getting louder.

“What was that?”

“How were you proposing to entertain the others supposing they had
stayed,” the Consul almost shrieked soundlessly, for he had himself
dreadful memories of showers that slithered all over him like soap
slipping from quivering fingers, “by taking a shower?”

And the observation plane was coming back, oh Jesus, yes, here, here,
out of nowhere, she came whizzing, straight at the balcony, at the
Consul, looking for him perhaps, zooming . . . Aaaaaaaah! Berumph.

M. Laruelle shook his head; he hadn’t heard a sound, a word. Now he came
out of the shower and into another little recess screened by a curtain
which he used as a dressing room:

“Lovely day, isn’t it? . . . I think we shall have thunder.”

“No.”

The Consul on a sudden went to the telephone, also in a kind of recess
(the house seemed fuller of such recesses to-day than usual) found the
telephone book, and now, shaking all over, opened it; not Vigil, no, not
Vigil, his nerves gibbered, but Guzmán. A.B.C.G. He was sweating now,
terribly; it was suddenly as hot in this little niche as in a telephone
booth in New York during a heat wave; his hands trembled frantically;
666, Cafeasperina; Guzmán. Erikson 34. He had the number, had forgotten
it: the name Zuzugoitea, Zuzugoitea, then Sanabria, came starting out of
the book at him: Erikson 35. Zuzugoitea. He’d already forgotten the
number, forgotten the number, 34, 35, 666: he was turning back the
leaves, a large drop of sweat splashed on the book—this time he thought
he saw Vigil’s name. But he’d already taken the receiver off the hook,
the receiver off the hook, off the hook, he held it the wrong way up,
speaking, splashing into the earhole, the mouth-hole, he could not
hear—could they hear? see?—the earhole as before: “Qué quieres? Who do
you want . . . God!” he shouted, hanging up. He would need a drink to do
this. He ran for the staircase but halfway up, shuddering, in a frenzy,
started down again; I brought the tray down. No, the drinks are still up
there. He came on the mirador and drank down all the drinks in sight. He
heard music. Suddenly about three hundred head of cattle, dead, frozen
stiff in the postures of the living, sprang on the slope before the
house, were gone. The Consul finished the contents of the cocktail
shaker and came downstairs quietly, picked up a paper-backed book lying
on the table, sat down and opened it with a long sigh. It was Jean
Cocteau’s _La Machine Infernale_. “Oui, mon enfant, mon petit enfant,”
he read, “les choses qui paraissent abominable aux humains, si tu
savais, de l’endroit où j’habite, elles ont peu d’importance.” “We might
have a drink in the square,” he said, closing the book, then opening it
again: sortes Shakespeareanae. “The gods exist, they are the devil,”
Baudelaire informed him.

He had forgotten Guzmán. Los Borrachones fell eternally into the flames.
M. Laruelle, who hadn’t noticed a thing, appeared again, resplendent in
white flannels, took his tennis racquet from the top of a bookcase; the
Consul found his stick and his dark glasses, and they went down the iron
spiral staircase together.

“Absolutamente necesario.” Outside the Consul paused, turning . . .

_No se puede vivir sin amar_, were the words on the house. In the street
there was now not a breath of wind and they walked a while without
speaking, listening to the babel of the fiesta which grew still louder
as they approached the town. Street of the Land of Fire. 666.

—M. Laruelle, possibly because he was walking on the higher part of the
banked street, now seemed even taller than he was, and beside him,
below, the Consul felt a moment uncomfortably dwarfed, childish. Years
before in their boyhood this position had been reversed; then the Consul
was the taller. But whereas the Consul had stopped growing when
seventeen at five foot eight or nine, M. Laruelle kept on through the
years under different skies until now he had grown out of the Consul’s
reach. Out of reach? Jacques was a boy of whom the Consul could still
remember certain things with affection: the way he pronounced
“vocabulary” to rhyme with “foolery,” or “bible” with “runcible.”
Runcible spoon. And he’d grown into a man who could shave and put on his
socks by himself. But out of his reach, hardly. Up there, across the
years, at his height of six foot three or four, it did not seem too
outlandish to suggest that his influence still reached him strongly. If
not, why the English-looking tweed coat similar to the Consul’s own,
those expensive expressive English tennis shoes of the kind you could
walk in, the English white trousers of twenty-one inches breadth, the
English shirt worn English-fashion open at the neck, the extraordinary
scarf that suggested M. Laruelle had once won a half-blue at the
Sorbonne or something? There was even, in spite of his slight stoutness,
an English, almost an ex-consular sort of litheness about his movements.
Why should Jacques be playing tennis at all? Have you forgotten it,
Jacques, how I myself taught you, that summer long ago, behind the
Taskersons’, or at the new public courts in Leasowe? On just such
afternoons as this. So brief their friendship and yet, the Consul
thought, how enormous, how all-permeating, permeating Jacques’ whole
life, that influence had been, an influence that showed even in his
choice of books, his work—why had Jacques come to Quauhnahuac in the
first place? Was it not much as though he, the Consul, from afar, had
willed it, for obscure purposes of his own? The man he’d met here
eighteen months ago seemed, though hurt in his art and destiny, the most
completely unequivocal and sincere Frenchman he’d ever known. Nor was
the seriousness of M. Laruelle’s face, seen now against the sky between
houses, compatible with cynical weakness. Was it not almost as though
the Consul had tricked him into dishonour and misery, willed, even, his
betrayal of him?

“Geoffrey,” M. Laruelle said suddenly, quietly, “has she really come
back?”

“It looks like it, doesn’t it?” They both paused, to light their pipes,
and the Consul noticed Jacques was wearing a ring he had not seen, a
scarab, of simple design, cut into a chalcedony: whether Jacques would
remove it to play tennis he didn’t know, but the hand that wore it was
trembling, while the Consul’s was now steady.

“But I mean really come back,” M. Laruelle continued in French as they
went forward up the Calle Tierra del Fuego. “She hasn’t merely come down
on a visit, or to see you out of curiosity, or on the basis that you’ll
just be friends, and so on, if you don’t mind my asking.”

“As a matter of fact I rather do.”

“Get this straight, Geoffrey, I’m thinking of Yvonne, not you.”

“Get it a little straighter still. You’re thinking of yourself.”

“But to-_day_—I can see how that’s—I suppose you were tight at the
ball. I didn’t go. But if so why aren’t you back home thanking God and
trying to rest and sober up instead of making everyone wretched by
taking them to Tomalín? Yvonne looks tired out.”

The words drew faint weary furrows across the Consul’s mind constantly
filling with harmless deliriums. Nevertheless his French was fluent and
rapid:

“How do you mean you suppose I was tight when Vigil told you so on the
phone? And weren’t you suggesting just now I take Yvonne to Guanajuato
with him? Perhaps you imagined if you could insinuate yourself into our
company on that proposed trip she would miraculously cease to be tired,
even though it’s fifty times further than to Tomalín.”

“When I suggested you go it hadn’t quite entered my head she’d only
arrived this morning.”

“Well—I forget whose idea Tomalín was,” the Consul said. Can it be I
discussing Yvonne with Jacques, discussing _us_ like this? Though after
all they had done it before. “But I haven’t explained just how Hugh fits
into the picture, have—”

“—_Eggs!_” had the jovial proprietor of the abarrotes called down from
the pavement above them to their right?

“Mesca_li_to!” had somebody else whizzed past carrying a length of
plank, some barfly of his acquaintance; or was that this morning?

—“And on second thoughts I don’t think I’ll trouble.”

Soon the town loomed up before them. They had reached the foot of Cortez
Palace. Near them children (encouraged by a man also in dark glasses who
seemed familiar, and to whom the Consul motioned) were swinging round
and round a telegraph pole on an improvised whirligig, a little parody
of the Great Carrousel up the hill in the square. Higher, on a terrace
of the Palace (because it was also the ayuntamiento) a soldier stood at
ease with a rifle: on a still higher terrace dawdled the tourists:
vandals in sandals looking at the murals.

The Consul and M. Laruelle had a good view of the Rivera frescoes from
where they were. “You get an impression from here those tourists can’t
up there,” M. Laruelle said, “they’re too close.” He was pointing with
his tennis racquet. “The slow darkening of the murals as you look from
right to left. It seems somehow to symbolise the gradual imposition of
the Spaniards’ conquering will upon the Indians. Do you see what I
mean?”

“If you stood at a greater distance still it might seem to symbolise for
you the gradual imposition of the Americans’ conquering friendship from
left to right upon the Mexicans,” the Consul said with a smile, removing
his dark glasses, “upon those who have to look at the frescoes and
remember who paid for them.”

The part of the murals he was gazing at portrayed, he knew, the
Tlahuicans who had died for this valley in which he lived. The artist
had represented them in their battle dress, wearing the masks and skins
of wolves and tigers. As he looked it was as though these figures were
gathering silently together. Now they had become one figure, one
immense, malevolent creature staring back at him. Suddenly this creature
appeared to start forward, then make a violent motion. It might have
been, indeed unmistakably it was, telling him to go away.

“See, there’s Yvonne and Hugues waving at you.” M. Laruelle waved back
his tennis racquet. “Do you know I think they make rather a formidable
couple,” he added, with a half pained, half malicious smile.

There they were too, he saw, the formidable couple, up by the frescoes:
Hugh with his foot on the rail of the Palace balcony, looking over their
heads at the volcanoes perhaps; Yvonne with her back to them now. She
was leaning against the rail facing the murals, then she turned sideways
toward Hugh to say something. They did not wave again.

M. Laruelle and the Consul decided against the cliff path. They floated
along the base of the Palace then, opposite the Banco de Crédito y
Ejidal, turned left up the steep narrow road climbing to the square.
Toiling, they edged into the Palace wall to let a man on horseback pass,
a fine-featured Indian of the poorer class, dressed in soiled white
loose clothes. The man was singing gaily to himself. But he nodded to
them courteously as if to thank them. He seemed about to speak, reining
in his little horse—on either side of which chinked two saddle-bags,
and upon whose rump was branded the number seven—to a slow walk beside
them, as they ascended the hill. _Jingle jingle little surcingle._ But
the man, riding slightly in front, did not speak and at the top he
suddenly waved his hand and galloped away, singing.

The Consul felt a pang. Ah, to have a horse, and gallop away, singing,
away to someone you loved perhaps, into the heart of all the simplicity
and peace in the world; was not that like the opportunity afforded man
by life itself? Of course not. Still, just for a moment, it had seemed
that it was.

“What is it Goethe says about the horse?” he said. “‘Weary of liberty he
suffered himself to be saddled and bridled, and was ridden to death for
his pains.’”

In the plaza the tumult was terrific. Once again they could scarcely
hear one another speak. A boy dashed up to them selling papers.
Sangriento Combate en Mora de Ebro. Los Aviones de los Rebeldes
Bombardean Barcelona. Es inevitable la muerte del Papa. The Consul
started; this time, an instant, he had thought the headlines referred to
himself. But of course it was only the poor Pope whose death was
inevitable. As if everyone else’s death were not inevitable too! In the
middle of the square a man was climbing a slippery flagpole in a
complicated manner necessitating ropes and spikes. The huge carrousel,
set near the bandstand, was thronged by peculiar long-nosed wooden
horses mounted on whorled pipes, dipping majestically as they revolved
with a slow piston-like circulation. Boys on roller skates, holding to
the stays of the umbrella structure, were being whirled around yelling
with joy, while the uncovered machine driving it hammered away like a
steam pump: then they were whizzing. _Barcelona_ and _Valencia_ mingled
with the crashes and cries against which the Consul’s nerves were
wooled. Jacques was pointing to the pictures on the panels running
entirely around the inner wheel that was set horizontally and attached
to the top of the central revolving pillar. A mermaid reclined in the
sea combing her hair and singing to the sailors of a five-funnelled
battleship. A daub which apparently represented Medea sacrificing her
children turned out to be of performing monkeys. Five jovial-looking a
Scottish glen at them, then went tearing out of sight. While a fine
Pancho Villa with handlebar moustaches galloped for dear life after them
all. But stranger than these was a panel showing lovers, a man and a
woman reclining by a river. Though childish and crude it had about it a
somnambulistic quality and something too of truth, of the pathos of
love. The lovers were depicted as awkwardly askance. Yet one felt that
really they were wrapped in each other’s arms by this river at dusk
among gold stars. Yvonne, he thought, with sudden tenderness, where are
you, my darling? Darling . . . For a moment he had thought her by his
side. Then he remembered she was lost; then that no, this feeling
belonged to yesterday, to the months of lonely torment behind him. She
was not lost at all, she was here all the time, here now, or as good as
here. The Consul wanted to raise his head, and shout for joy, like the
horseman: she is here! Wake up, she has come back again! Sweetheart,
darling, I love you! A desire to find her immediately and take her home
(where in the garden still lay the white bottle of Tequila Añejo de
Jalisco, unfinished) to put a stop to this senseless trip, to be, above
all, alone with her, seized him, and a desire too, to lead immediately
again a normal happy life with her, a life, for instance, in which such
innocent happiness as all these good people around him were enjoying,
was possible. But had they ever led a normal happy life? Had such a
thing as a normal happy life ever been possible for them? It had . . .
Yet what about that belated postcard, now under Laruelle’s pillow? It
proved the lonely torment unnecessary, proved, even, he must have wanted
it. Would anything really have been _changed_ had he received the card
at the right time? He doubted it. After all, her other letters—Christ,
again, where were they?—had not changed anything. If he had read them
properly, perhaps. But he had not read them properly. And soon he would
forget about what had been done with the card. Nevertheless the desire
remained—like an echo of Yvonne’s own—to find her, to find her now, to
reverse their doom, it was a desire amounting almost to a resolution
. . . Raise your head, Geoffrey Firmin, breathe your prayer of
thankfulness, act before it is too late. But the weight of a great hand
seemed to be pressing his head down. The desire passed. At the same
time, as though a cloud had come over the sun, the aspect of the fair
had completely altered for him. The merry grinding of the roller skates,
the cheerful if ironic music, the cries of the little children on their
goose-necked steeds, the procession of queer pictures—all this had
suddenly become transcendentally awful and tragic, distant, transmuted,
as it were some final impression on the senses of what the earth was
like, carried over into an obscure region of death, a gathering thunder
of immedicable sorrow; the Consul needed a drink . . .

—“Tequila,” he said. “Una?” the boy said sharply, and M. Laruelle
called for gaseosa.

“Sí, señores.” The boy swept the table. “Una tequila y una gaseosa.” He
brought immediately a bottle of El Nilo for M. Laruelle together with
salt, chile, and a saucer of sliced lemons.

The café, which was in the centre of a little railed-in garden at the
edge of the square among trees, was called the Paris. And in fact it was
reminiscent of Paris. A simple fountain dripped near. The boy brought
them camarones, red shrimps in a saucer, and had to be told again to get
the tequila.

At last it arrived.

“Ah—” the Consul said, though it was the chalcedony ring that had been
shaking.

“Do you really like it?” M. Laruelle asked him, and the Consul, sucking
a lemon, felt the fire of the tequila run down his spine like lightning
striking a tree which thereupon, miraculously, blossoms.

“What are you shaking for?” the Consul asked him.

M. Laruelle stared at him, he gave a nervous glance over his shoulder,
he made as if absurdly to twang his tennis racquet on his toe, but
remembering the press, stood it up against his chair awkwardly.

“What are _you_ afraid of—” the Consul was mocking him.

“I admit, I feel confused . . .” M. Laruelle cast a more protracted
glance over his shoulder. “Here, give me some of your poison.” He leaned
forward and took a sip of the Consul’s tequila and remained bent over
the thimble-shaped glass of terrors, a moment since brimming.

“Like it?”

“—like Oxygènée, and petrol . . . If I ever start to drink that stuff,
Geoffrey, you’ll know I’m done for.”

“It’s mescal with me . . . Tequila, no, that is healthful . . . and
delightful. Just like beer. Good for you. But if I ever start to drink
mescal again, I’m afraid, yes, that would be the end,” the Consul said
dreamily.

“Name of a name of God,” shuddered M. Laruelle.

“You’re not afraid of Hugh, are you?” The Consul, mocking,
pursued—while it struck him that all the desolation of the months
following Yvonne’s departure were now mirrored in the _other’s_ eyes.
“Not jealous of him, by any chance, are you?”

“Why should—”

“But you are thinking, aren’t you, that in all this time I have never
once told you the truth about my life,” the Consul said, “isn’t that
right?”

“No . . . For perhaps once or twice, Geoffrey, without knowing it, you
have told the truth. No, I truly want to help. But, as usual, you don’t
give me a chance.”

“I have never told you the truth. I know it, it is worse than terrible.
But as Shelley says, the cold world shall not know. And the tequila
hasn’t cured your trembling.”

“No, I am afraid,” M. Laruelle said.

“But I thought you were never afraid . . . Un otro tequila,” the Consul
told the boy, who came running, repeating sharply, “—uno?”

M. Laruelle glanced round after the boy as if it had been in his mind to
say “dos”: “I’m afraid of you,” he said, “Old Bean.”

The Consul heard, after half the second tequila, every now and then,
familiar well-meaning phrases. “It’s hard to say this. As man to man. I
don’t care who she is. Even if the miracle has occurred. Unless you cut
it out altogether.”

The Consul however was looking past M. Laruelle at the flying boats
which were at a little distance: the machine itself was feminine,
graceful as a ballet dancer, its iron skirts of gondolas whirling higher
and higher. Finally it whizzed round with a tense whipping and whining,
then its skirts drooped chastely again when for a time there was
stillness, only the breeze stirring them. And how beautiful, beautiful,
beautiful—

“For God’s sake. Go home to bed . . . Or stay here. I’ll find the
others. And tell them you’re not going . . .”

“But I am going,” the Consul said, commencing to take one of the shrimps
apart. “Not camarones,” he added. “Cabrones. That’s what the Mexicans
call them.” Placing his thumbs at the base of both ears he waggled his
fingers. “Cabrón. You too, perhaps . . . Venus is a horned star.”

“What about the damage you’ve done, to _her_ life . . . After all your
howling . . . If you’ve got her back!—If you’ve got this chance—”

“You are interfering with my great battle,” the Consul said, gazing past
M. Laruelle at an advertisement at the foot of the fountain: _Peter
Lorre en Las Manos de Orlac: á las 6:30 P. M._ “I have to have a drink
or two now, myself—so long as it isn’t mescal of course—else I shall
become confused, like yourself.”

“—the truth is, I suppose, that sometimes, when you’ve calculated the
amount exactly, you do see more clearly,” M. Laruelle was admitting a
minute later.

“Against death.” The Consul sank back easily in his chair. “My battle
for the survival of the human consciousness.”

“But certainly not the things so important to us despised sober people,
on which the balance of any human situation depends. It’s precisely your
inability to see them, Geoffrey, that turns them into the instruments of
the disaster you have created yourself. Your Ben Jonson, for instance,
or perhaps it was Christopher Marlowe, your Faust man, saw the
Carthaginians fighting on his big toe-nail. That’s like the kind of
clear seeing you indulge in. Everything seems perfectly clear, because
indeed it is perfectly clear, in terms of the toe-nail.”

“Have a devilled scorpion,” invited the Consul, pushing over the
camarones with extended arm. “A bedevilled cabrón.”

“I admit the efficacy of your tequila—but do you realise that while
you’re battling against death, or whatever you imagine you’re doing,
while what is mystical in you is being released, or whatever it is you
imagine is being released, while you’re enjoying all this, do you
realise what extraordinary allowances are being made for you by the
world which has to cope with you, yes, are even now being made by _me_?”

The Consul was gazing upward dreamily at the Ferris wheel near them,
huge, but resembling an enormously magnified child’s structure of
girders and angle brackets, nuts and bolts, in Meccano; to-night it
would be lit up, its steel twigs caught in the emerald pathos of the
trees; _the wheel of the law, rolling_; and it bore thinking of too that
the carnival was not going in earnest now. What a hullabaloo there would
be later! His eye fell on another little carrousel, a dazzle-painted
wobbling child’s toy, and he saw himself as a child making up his mind
to go on it, hesitating, missing the next opportunity, and the next,
missing all the opportunities finally, until it was too late. What
opportunities, precisely, did he mean? A voice on the radio somewhere
began to sing a song: Samaritana mía, alma pía, bebe en tu boca linda,
then went dead. It had sounded like Samaritana.

“And you forget what you exclude from this, shall we say, feeling of
omniscience. And at night, I imagine, or between drink and drink, which
is a sort of night, what you have excluded, as if it resented that
exclusion, returns—”

“I’ll say it returns,” the Consul said, listening at this point. “There
are other minor deliriums too, _meteora_, which you can pick out of the
air before your eyes, like gnats. And this is what people seem to think
is the end . . . But d.t.’s are only the beginning, the music round the
portal of the Qliphoth, the overture, conducted by the God of Flies
. . . Why do people see rats? These are the sort of questions that ought
to concern the world, Jacques. Consider the word remorse. Remord.
Mordeo, mordere. La Mordida! Agenbite too . . . And why rongeur? Why all
this biting, all those rodents, in the etymology?”

“Facilis est descensus Averno . . . It’s too easy.”

“You deny the greatness of my battle? Even if I win. And I shall
certainly win, if I want to,” the Consul added, aware of a man near them
standing on a step-ladder nailing a board to a tree.

“Je crois que le vautour est doux à Prometheus et que les Ixion se
plaisent en Enfers.”

—¡Box!

“To say nothing of what you lose, lose, lose, are losing, man. You fool,
you stupid fool . . . You’ve even been insulated from the responsibility
of genuine suffering . . . Even the suffering you do endure is largely
unnecessary. Actually spurious. It lacks the very basis you require of
it for its tragic nature. You deceive yourself. For instance that you’re
drowning your sorrows . . . Because of Yvonne and me. But Yvonne knows.
And so do I. And so do you. That Yvonne wouldn’t have been aware. If you
hadn’t been so drunk all the time. To know what she was doing. Or care.
And what’s more. The same thing is bound to happen again you fool it
will happen again if you don’t pull yourself together. I can see the
writing on the wall. Hullo.”

M. Laruelle wasn’t there at all; he had been talking to himself. The
Consul stood up and finished his tequila. But the writing was there, all
right, if not on the wall. The man had nailed his board to the tree:

                         ¿LE GUSTA ESTE JARDÍN?

The Consul realised, leaving the Paris, he was in a state of
drunkenness, so to speak, rare with him. His steps teetered to the left,
he could not make them incline to the right. He knew in which direction
he was going, toward the Bus Terminal, or rather the little dark cantina
adjacent to it kept by the widow Gregorio, who herself was half English
and had lived in Manchester, and to whom he owed fifty centavos he’d
suddenly made up his mind to pay back. But simply he could not steer a
straight course there . . . _Oh we all walk the wibberley wobberley_—

Dies Faustus . . . The Consul looked at his watch. Just for one moment,
one horrible moment in the Paris, he had thought it night, that it was
one of those days the hours slid by like corks bobbing astern, and the
morning was carried away by the wings of the angel of night, all in a
trice, but to-day quite the reverse seemed to be happening: it was still
only five to two. It was already the longest day in his entire
experience, a lifetime; he had not only not missed the bus, he would
have plenty of time for more drinks. If only he were not drunk! The
Consul strongly disapproved of this drunkenness.

Children accompanied him, gleefully aware of his plight. Money, money,
money, they gibbered. O.K. mistair! Where har you go? Their cries grew
discouraged, fainter, utterly disappointed as they clung to his trouser
leg. He would have liked to give them something. Yet he did not wish to
draw more attention to himself. He had caught sight of Hugh and Yvonne,
trying their hands at a shooting gallery. Hugh was shooting, Yvonne
watched; _phut_, _pssst_, _pfffing_; and Hugh brought down a procession
of wooden ducks.

The Consul stumbled on without being seen, passing a booth where you
could have your photograph taken with your sweetheart against a
terrifying thunderous background, lurid and green, with a charging bull,
and Popocatepetl in eruption, past, his face averted, the shabby little
closed British Consulate, where the lion and the unicorn on the faded
blue shield regarded him mournfully. This was shameful. But we are still
at your service, in spite of all, they seemed to say. Dieu et mon droit.
The children had given him up. However he had lost his bearings. He was
reaching the edge of the fair. Mysterious tents were shut up here, or
lying collapsed, enfolded on themselves. They appeared almost human, the
former kind awake, expectant; the latter with the wrinkled crumpled
aspect of men asleep, but longing even in unconsciousness to stretch
their limbs. Further on at the final frontiers of the fair, it was the
day of the dead indeed. Here the tent booths and galleries seemed not so
much asleep as lifeless, beyond hope of revival. Yet there were faint
signs of life after all, he saw.

At a point outside the plaza’s periphery, half on the pavement, there
was another, utterly desolated, “safe” roundabout. The little chairs
circulated beneath a frilled canvas pyramid that twirled slowly for half
a minute, then stopped, when it looked just like the hat of the bored
Mexican who tended it. Here it was, this little Popocatepetl, nestling
far away from the swooping flying machines, far from the Great Wheel,
existing—for whom did it exist, the Consul wondered. Belonging neither
to the children nor the adults it stood, untenanted, as one might
imagine the whirligig of adolescence as resting deserted, if youth
suspected it of offering an excitement so apparently harmless, choosing
rather what in the proper square swooned in agonising ellipses beneath
some gigantic canopy.

The Consul walked on a little further, still unsteadily; he thought he
had his bearings again, then stopped:

                           ¡BRAVA ATRACCIÓN!
                         10 c MÁQUINA INFERNAL

he read, half struck by some coincidence in this. Wild attraction. The
huge looping-the-loop machine, empty, but going full blast over his head
in this dead section of the fair, suggested some huge evil spirit,
screaming in its lonely hell, its limbs writhing, smiting the air like
flails of paddlewheels. Obscured by a tree, he hadn’t seen it before.
The machine stopped also . . .

“—Mistair. Money money money.” “Mistair! Where har you go?”

The wretched children had spotted him again; and his penalty for
avoiding them was to be drawn inexorably, though with as much dignity as
possible, into boarding the monster. And now, his ten centavos paid to a
Chinese hunchback in a retiform visored tennis cap, he was alone,
irrevocably and ridiculously alone, in a little confession box. After a
while, with violent bewildering convulsions, the thing started to go.
The confession boxes, perched at the end of menacing steel cranks,
zoomed upwards and heavily fell. The Consul’s own cage hurled up again
with a powerful thrusting, hung for a moment upside down at the top,
while the other cage, which, significantly, was empty, was at the
bottom, then, before this situation had been grasped, crashed down,
paused a moment at the other extremity, only to be lifted upwards again
cruelly to the highest point where for an interminable, intolerable
period of suspension, it remained motionless.—The Consul, like that
poor fool who was bringing light to the world, was hung upside down over
it, with only a scrap of woven wire between himself and death. There,
above him, poised the world, with its people stretching out down to him,
about to fall off the road onto his head, or into the sky. 999. The
people hadn’t been there before. Doubtless, following the children, they
had assembled to watch him. Obliquely he was aware that he was without
physical fear of death, as he would have been without fear at this
moment of anything else that might sober him up; perhaps this had been
his main idea. But he did not like it. This was not amusing. It was
doubtless another example of Jacques’—Jacques?—unnecessary suffering.
And it was scarcely a dignified position for an ex-representative of His
Majesty’s government to find himself in, though it was symbolic, of what
he could not conceive, but it was undoubtedly symbolic. Jesus. All at
once, terribly, the confession boxes had begun to go in reverse: Oh, the
Consul said, oh; for the sensation of falling was now as if terribly
behind him, unlike anything, beyond experience; certainly this recessive
unwinding was not like looping-the-loop in a plane, where the movement
was quickly over, the only strange feeling one of increased weight; as a
sailor he disapproved of that feeling too, but this—ah, my God!
Everything was falling out of his pockets, was being wrested from him,
torn away, a fresh article at each whirling, sickening, plunging,
retreating, unspeakable circuit, his notecase, pipe, keys, his dark
glasses he had taken off, his small change he did not have time to
imagine being pounced on by the children after all, he was being emptied
out, returned empty, his stick, his passport—had that been his
passport? He didn’t know if he’d brought it with him. Then he remembered
he had brought it. Or hadn’t brought it. It could be difficult even for
a Consul to be without a passport in Mexico. Ex-consul. What did it
matter? Let it go! There was a kind of fierce delight in this final
acceptance. Let everything go! Everything particularly that provided
means of ingress or egress, went bond for, gave meaning or character, or
purpose or identity to that frightful bloody nightmare he was forced to
carry around with him everywhere upon his back, that went by the name of
Geoffrey Firmin, late of His Majesty’s Navy, later still of His
Majesty’s Consular Service, later still of—Suddenly it struck him that
the Chinaman was asleep, that the children, the people had gone, that
this would go on forever; no one could stop the machine . . . It was
over.

And yet not over. On terra firma the world continued to spin madly
round; houses, whirligigs, hotels, cathedrals, cantinas, volcanoes: it
was difficult to stand up at all. He was conscious of people laughing at
him but, what was more surprising, of his possessions being restored to
him, one by one. The child who had his notecase withdrew it from him
playfully before returning it. No: she still had something in her other
hand, a crumpled paper. The Consul thanked her for it firmly. Some
telegram of Hugh’s. His stick, his glasses, his pipe, unbroken; yet not
his favorite pipe; and no passport. Well, definitely he could not have
brought it. Putting his other things back in his pockets he turned a
corner, very unsteadily, and slumped down on a bench. He replaced his
dark glasses, set his pipe in his mouth, crossed his legs, and, as the
world gradually slowed down, assumed the bored expression of an English
tourist sitting in the Luxembourg Gardens.

Children, he thought, how charming they were at heart. The very same
kids who had beseiged him for money, had now brought him back even the
smallest of his small change and then, touched by his embarrassment, had
scurried away without waiting for a reward. Now he wished he had given
them something. The little girl had gone also. Perhaps this was her
exercise book open on the bench. He wished he had not been so brusque
with her, that she would come back, so that he could give her the book.
Yvonne and he should have had children, would have had children, could
have had children, should have . . .

In the exercise book he made out with difficulty:

Escruch is an old man. He lives in London. He lives alone in a large
house. Scrooge is a rich man but he never gives to the poor. He is a
miser. No one loves Scrooge and Scrooge loves no one. He has no friends.
He is alone in the world. The man (el hombre): the house (la casa): the
poor (los pobres): he lives (el vive): he gives (el da): he has no
friends (el no tiene amigos): he loves (el ama): old (viejo): large
(grande): no one (nadie): rich (rico): Who is Scrooge? Where does he
live? Is Scrooge rich or poor? Has he friends? How does he live? Alone.
World. On.

At last the earth had stopped spinning with the motion of the Infernal
Machine. The last house was still, the last tree rooted again. It was
seven minutes past two by his watch. And he was cold stone sober. How
horrible was the feeling. The Consul closed the exercise book: bloody
old Scrooge; how queer to meet him here!

—Gay-looking soldiers, grimy as sweeps, strolled up and down the
avenues with a jaunty unmilitary gait. Their officers, smartly
uniformed, sat on benches, leaning forward over their swagger canes as
if petrified by remote strategical thoughts. An Indian carrier with a
towering load of chairs loped along the Avenida Guerrero. A madman
passed, wearing, in the manner of a lifebelt, an old bicycle tire. With
a nervous movement he continually shifted the injured tread round his
neck. He muttered to the Consul, but waiting neither for reply nor
reward, took off the tire and flung it far ahead of him toward a booth,
then followed unsteadily, stuffing something in his mouth from a tin
bait jar. Picking up the tire he flung it far ahead again, repeating
this process, to the irreducible logic of which he appeared eternally
committed, until out of sight.

The Consul felt a clutch at his heart and half rose. He had caught sight
of Hugh and Yvonne again at a booth; she was buying a tortilla from an
old woman. While the woman plastered the tortilla for her with cheese
and tomato sauce, a touchingly dilapidated little policeman, doubtless
one on strike, with cap askew, in soiled baggy trousers, leggings, and a
coat several sizes too large for him, tore off a piece of lettuce and
with a consummately courteous smile, handed it to her. They were having
a splendid time, it was obvious. They ate their tortillas, grinning at
each other as the sauce dripped from their fingers; now Hugh had brought
out his handkerchief; he was wiping a smear from Yvonne’s cheek, while
they roared with laughter, in which the policeman joined. What had
happened to their plot now, their plot to get him away? Never mind. The
clutch at his heart had become a cold iron grip of persecution which had
been stayed only by a certain relief; for how, had Jacques communicated
his little anxieties to them, would they now be here, laughing? Still,
one never knew; and a policeman was a policeman, even if on strike, and
friendly, and the Consul was more afraid of the police than death. He
placed a small stone upon the child’s exercise book, leaving it on the
bench, and dodged behind a stall to avoid them. He got a glimpse through
the boards of the man still halfway up the slippery pole, neither near
enough to the top nor the bottom to be certain of reaching either in
comfort, avoided a huge turtle dying in two parallel streams of blood on
the pavement outside a sea-food restaurant, and entered El Bosque with a
steady gait, as once before, similarly obsessed, at a run: there was no
sign of the bus yet; he had twenty minutes, probably more.

The Terminal Cantina El Bosque, however, seemed so dark that even with
his glasses off he had to stop dead . . . Mi ritrovai per una bosca
oscura—or selva? No matter. The Cantina was well named, “The Boskage.”
This darkness, though, was associated in his mind with velvet curtains,
and there they were, behind the shadowy bar, velvet or velveteen
curtains, too dirty and full of dust to be black, partially screening
the entrance to the back room, which one could never be sure was
private. For some reason the fiesta had not overflowed in here; the
place—a Mexican relative of the English “Jug and Bottle,” chiefly
dedicated to those who drank “off” the premises, in which there was only
one spindly iron table and two stools at the bar, and which, facing
east, became progressively darker as the sun, to those who noticed such
things, climbed higher into the sky—was deserted, as usual at this
hour. The Consul groped his way forward. “Señora Gregorio,” he called
softly, yet with an agonized impatient quaver in his voice. It had been
difficult to find his voice at all; he now needed another drink badly.
The word echoed through the back of the house; Gregorio; there was no
answer. He sat down, while gradually the shapes about him became more
clearly defined, shapes of barrels behind the bar, of bottles. Ah, the
poor turtle!—The thought struck at a painful tangent.—There were big
green barrels of jerez, habanero, catalán, parras, zarzamora, málaga,
durazno, membrillo, raw alcohol at a peso a litre, tequila, mescal,
rumpope. As he read these names and, as if it were a dreary dawn
outside, the cantina grew lighter to his eyes, he heard voices in his
ears again, a single voice above the muted roar of the fair: “Geoffrey
Firmin, this is what it is like to die, just this and no more, an
awakening from a dream in a dark place, in which, as you see, are
present the means of escape from yet another nightmare. But the choice
is up to you. You are not invited to use those means of escape; it is
left up to your judgment; to obtain them it is necessary only to—”
“Señora Gregorio,” he repeated, and the echo came back: “Orio.”

In one corner of the bar someone had apparently once begun a small
mural, aping the Great Mural in the Palace, two or three figures only,
peeling and inchoate Tlahuicans.—There was the sound of slow, dragging
footsteps from behind; the widow appeared, a little old woman wearing an
unusually long and shabby rustling black dress. Her hair that he
recalled as grey seemed to have been recently hennaed, or dyed red, and
though it hung untidily in front, it was twisted up at the back into a
Psyche knot. Her face, which was beaded with perspiration, evinced the
most extraordinary waxen pallor; she looked careworn, wasted with
suffering, yet at the sight of the Consul her tired eyes gleamed,
kindling her whole expression to one of wry amusement in which there
appeared also both a determination and a certain weary expectancy.
“Mescal posseebly,” she said, in a queer, chanting half-bantering tone,
“Mescal imposseebly.” But she made no move to draw the Consul a drink,
perhaps because of his debt, an objection he immediately disposed of by
laying a tostón on the counter. She smiled almost slyly as she edged
toward the mescal barrel.

“No, tequila, por favor,” he said.

“Un obsequio”—she handed him the tequila. “Where do you laugh now?”

“I still laugh in the Calle Nicaragua, cincuenta dos,” the Consul
replied, smiling. “You mean ‘live,’ Señora Gregorio, not ‘laugh,’ con
permiso.”

“Remember,” Señora Gregorio corrected him gently, slowly, “remember my
English. Well, so it is,” she sighed, drawing a small glass of málaga
for herself from the barrel chalked with that name. “Here’s to your
love. What’s my names?” She pushed toward him a saucer filled with salt
that was speckled with orange-colored pepper.

“Lo mismo.” The Consul drank the tequila down. “Geoffrey Firmin.”

Señora Gregorio brought him a second tequila; for a time they regarded
one another without speaking. “So it is,” she repeated at last, sighing
once more; and there was pity in her voice for the Consul. “So it is.
You must take it as it come. It can’t be helped.”

“No, it can’t be helped.”

“If you har your wife you would lose all things in that love,” Señora
Gregorio said, and the Consul, understanding that somehow this
conversation was being taken up where it had been left off weeks before,
probably at the point where Yvonne had abandoned him for the seventh
time that evening, found himself not caring to change the basis of
shared misery on which their relationship rested—for Gregorio had
really abandoned her before he died—by informing her his wife had come
back, was indeed, perhaps, not fifty feet away. “Both minds is occupied
in one thing, so you can’t lose it,” she continued sadly.

“Sí” said the Consul.

“So it is. If your mind is occupied with all things, then you never lose
your mind. Your minds, your life—your everything in it. Once when I was
a girl I never used to think I live like I laugh now. I always used to
dream about kernice dreams. Nice clothes, nice hairts—‘Everything is
good for me just now’ it was one time, theatres, but everything—now, I
don’t think of but nothing but trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble; and
trouble comes . . . So it is.”

“Sí, Señora Gregorio.”

“Of course I was a kernice girl from home,” she was saying. “This—” she
glanced contemptuously round the dark little bar, “was never in my mind.
Life changes, you know, you can never drink of it.”

“Not ‘drink of it,’ Señora Gregorio, you mean ‘think of it.’”

“Never drink of it. Oh, well,” she said, pouring out a litre of raw
alcohol for a poor noseless peon who had entered silently and was
standing in a corner, “a kernice life among kernice people, and now
what?”

Señora Gregorio shuffled off into the back room, leaving the Consul
alone. He sat with his second large tequila untouched for some minutes.
He imagined himself drinking it yet had not the will to stretch out his
hand to take it, as if it were something once long and tediously desired
but which, an overflowing cup suddenly within reach, had lost all
meaning. The cantina’s emptiness, and a strange ticking like that of
some beetle, within that emptiness, began to get on his nerves; he
looked at his watch: only seventeen minutes past two. This was where the
tick was coming from. Again he imagined himself taking the drink: again
his will failed him. Once the swing door opened, someone glanced round
quickly to satisfy himself, went out: was that Hugh, Jacques? Whoever it
was had seemed to possess the features of both, alternately. Somebody
else entered and, though the next instant the Consul felt this was not
the case, went right through into the back room, peering round
furtively. A starving pariah dog with the appearance of having lately
been skinned had squeezed itself in after the last man; it looked up at
the Consul with beady, gentle eyes. Then, thrusting down its poor
wrecked dinghy of a chest, from which raw withered breasts drooped, it
began to bow and scrape before him. Ah, the ingress of the animal
kingdom! Earlier it had been the insects; now these were closing in upon
him again, these animals, these people without ideas: “Dispense usted,
por Dios,” he whispered to the dog, then wanting to say something kind,
added, stooping, a phrase read or heard in youth or childhood: “For God
sees how timid and beautiful you really are, and the thoughts of hope
that go with you like little white birds—”

The Consul stood up and suddenly declaimed to the dog:

“Yet this day, pichicho, shalt thou be with me in—” But the dog hopped
away in terror on three legs and slunk under the door.

The Consul finished his tequila in one gulp; he went to the counter.
“Señora Gregorio,” he called; he waited, casting his eyes about the
cantina, which seemed to have grown very much lighter. And the echo came
back: “Orio.”—Why, the mad pictures of the wolves! He had forgotten
they were here. The materialised pictures, six or seven of considerable
length, completed, in the defection of the muralist, the decoration of
El Bosque. They were precisely the same in every detail. All showed the
same sleigh being pursued by the same pack of wolves. The wolves hunted
the occupants of the sleigh the entire length of the bar and at
intervals right round the room, though neither sleigh nor wolves budged
an inch in the process. To what red tartar, oh mysterious beast?
Incongruously, the Consul was reminded of Rostov’s wolf hunt in _War and
Peace_—ah, that incomparable party afterwards at the old uncle’s, the
sense of youth, the gaiety, the love! At the same time he remembered
having been told that wolves never hunted in packs at all. Yes, indeed,
how many patterns of life were based on kindred misconceptions, how many
wolves do we feel on our heels, while our real enemies go in sheepskin
by? “Señora Gregorio,” he said again, and saw that the widow was
returning, dragging her feet, though it was perhaps too late, there
would not be time for another tequila.

He held out his hand, then dropped it—Good God, what had come over him?
For an instant he’d thought he was looking at his own mother. Now he
found himself struggling with his tears, that he wanted to embrace
Señora Gregorio, to cry like a child, to hide his face on her bosom.
“Adiós,” he said, and seeing a tequila on the counter just the same, he
drank it rapidly.

Señora Gregorio took his hand and held it. “Life changes, you know,” she
said, gazing at him intently. “You can never drink of it. I think I see
you with your esposa again soon. I see you laughing together in some
kernice place where you laugh.” She smiled. “Far away. In some kernice
place where all those troubles you har now will har—” The Consul
started: what was Señora Gregorio saying? “Adiós,” she added in Spanish,
“I have no house only a shadow. But whenever you are in need of a
shadow, my shadow is yours.”

“Thank you.”

“Sank you.”

“Not sank you, Señora Gregorio, thank you.”

“Sank you.”

The coast looked clear: yet when the Consul pushed out cautiously
through the jalousie doors he almost fell over Dr. Vigil. Fresh and
impeccable in his tennis clothes, he was hurrying by, accompanied by Mr.
Quincey and the local cinema manager, Señor Bustamente. The Consul drew
back, fearful now of Vigil, of Quincey, of being seen coming out of the
cantina, but they appeared not to notice him as they glided past the
Tomalín camión, which had just arrived, their elbows working like
jockeys, chattering unceasingly. He suspected their conversation to be
entirely about him; what could be done with him, they were asking, how
many drinks had he put away at the Gran Baile last night? Yes, there
they were, even going towards the Bella Vista itself, to get a few more
“opinions” about him. They flitted here and there, vanished . . .

Es inevitable la muerte del Papa.




                                  VIII


DOWNHILL . . .

“Let in the clutch, step on the gas,” the driver threw a smile over his
shoulder. “Sure, Mike,” he went on Irish-American for them.

The bus, a 1918 Chevrolet, jerked forward with a noise like startled
poultry. It wasn’t full, save for the Consul, who spread himself, in a
good mood, drunk-sober-uninhibited; Yvonne sat neutral but smiling;
they’d started anyhow. No wind; yet a gust lifted the awnings along the
street. Soon they were rolling in a heavy sea of chaotic stone. They
passed tall hexagonal stands pasted with advertisements for Yvonne’s
cinema: _Las Manos de Orlac_. Elsewhere posters for the same film showed
a murderer’s hands, laced with blood.

They advanced slowly, past the Baños de la Libertad, the Casa Brandes
(La Primera en el Ramo de Electricidad), a hooded hooting intruder
through the narrow tilted streets. At the market they stopped for a
group of Indian women with baskets of live fowl. The women’s strong
faces were the colour of dark ceramic ware. There was a massiveness in
their movements as they settled themselves. Two or three had cigarette
stubs behind their ears, another chewed an old pipe. Their good-humoured
faces of old idols were wrinkled with sun but they did not smile.

—“Look! O.K.,” the driver of the bus invited Hugh and Yvonne, who were
changing places, producing, from beneath his shirt where they’d been
nestling, little secret ambassadors of peace, of love, two beautiful
white tame pigeons. “My—ah—my aerial pigeons.”

They had to scratch the heads of the birds who, arching their backs
proudly, shone as with fresh white paint. (Could he have known, as Hugh,
from merely smelling the latest headlines had known, how much nearer
even in these moments the Government were to losing the Ebro, that it
would now be a matter of days before Modesto withdrew altogether?) The
driver replaced the pigeons under his white open shirt: “To keep them
warm. Sure, Mike. Yes sir,” he told them. “Vámonos!”

Someone laughed as the bus lurched off; the faces of the other
passengers slowly cracked into mirth, the camión was welding the old
women into a community. The clock over the market arch, like the one in
Rupert Brooke, said ten to three; but it was twenty to. They rambled and
bounced into the main highway, the Avenida de la Revolución, past
offices whose windows proclaimed, while the Consul nodded his head
deprecatingly, Dr. Arturo Díaz Vigil, Médico Cirujano y Partero, past
the cinema itself.—The old women didn’t look as though they knew about
the Battle of the Ebro either. Two of them were holding an anxious
conversation, in spite of the clatter and squeak of the patient
floorboards, about the price of fish. Used to tourists, they took no
notice of them. Hugh conveyed to the Consul:

“How are the rajah shakes?”

_Inhumaciones_: the Consul, laughingly pinching one ear, was pointing
for answer at the undertakers’ jolting by, where a parrot, head cocked,
looked down from its perch suspended in the entrance, above which a sign
inquired:

_Quo Vadis?_

Where they were going immediately was down, at a snail’s pace, by a
secluded square with great old trees, their delicate leaves like new
spring green. In the garden under the trees were doves and a small black
goat. ¿Le gusta este jardín, que es suyo? ¡Evite que sus hijos lo
destruyan! Do you like this garden, the notice said, that is yours? See
to it that your children do not destroy it!

. . . There were no children, however, in the garden; just a man sitting
alone on a stone bench. This man was apparently the devil himself, with
a huge dark red face and horns, fangs, and his tongue hanging out over
his chin, and an expression of mingled evil, lechery, and terror. The
devil lifted his mask to spit, rose and shambled through the garden with
a dancing, loping step towards a church almost hidden by the trees.
There was a sound of clashing machetes. A native dance was going on
beyond some awnings by the church, on the steps of which two Americans
Yvonne and he had seen earlier were watching on tiptoe, craning their
necks.

“Seriously,” Hugh repeated to the Consul, who seemed calmly to have
accepted the devil, while Hugh exchanged a look of regret with Yvonne,
for they had seen no dancing in the zócalo, and it was now too late to
get out.

“Quod semper, quod ubique, quod ab omnibus.”

They were crossing a bridge at the bottom of the hill, over the ravine.
It appeared overtly horrendous here. In the bus one looked straight
down, as from the maintruck of a sailing ship, through dense foliage and
wide leaves that did not at all conceal the treachery of the drop; its
steep banks were thick with refuse, which even hung on the bushes.
Turning, Hugh saw a dead dog right at the bottom, nuzzling the refuse;
white bones showed through the carcass. But above was the blue sky and
Yvonne looked happy when Popocatepetl sprang into view, dominating the
landscape for a while as they climbed the hill beyond. Then it dropped
out of sight around a corner. It was a long circuitous hill. Halfway up,
outside a gaudily decorated tavern, a man in a blue suit and strange
head-gear, swaying gently and eating half a melon, awaited the bus. From
the interior of this tavern, which was called El Amor de los Amores,
came a sound of singing. Hugh caught sight of what appeared to be armed
policemen drinking at the bar. The camión slithered, banking with wheels
locked to a stop alongside the sidewalk.

The driver dashed into the tavern, leaving the tilted camión, which
meanwhile the man with the melon had boarded, throbbing away to itself.
The driver emerged; he hurled himself back onto the vehicle, jamming it
almost simultaneously into gear. Then, with an amused glance over his
shoulder at the man, and a look to his trusting pigeons, he urged his
bus up the hill:

“Sure, Mike. Sure. O.K. boy.”

The Consul was pointing back at the El Amor de los Amores:

“Viva Franco . . . That’s one of your fascist joints, Hugh.”

“So?”

“That hophead’s the brother of the proprietor, I believe. I can tell you
this much . . . He’s not an aerial pigeon.”

“A what? . . . Oh.”

“You may not think it, but he’s a Spaniard.”

The seats ran lengthwise and Hugh looked at the man in the blue suit
opposite, who had been talking thickly to himself, who now, drunk,
drugged, or both, seemed sunk in stupor. There was no conductor on the
bus. Perhaps there would be one later, evidently fares were to be paid
the driver on getting off, so none bothered him. Certainly his features,
high, prominent nose and firm chin, were of strongly Spanish cast. His
hands—in one he still clutched the gnawed half-melon—were huge,
capable and rapacious. Hands of the conquistador, Hugh thought suddenly.
But his general aspect suggested less the conquistador than, it was
Hugh’s perhaps too neat idea, the confusion that tends eventually to
overtake conquistadores. His blue suit was of quite expensive cut, the
open coat, it appeared, shaped at the waist. Hugh had noticed his
broad-cuffed trousers draped well over expensive shoes. The shoes
however—which had been shined that morning but were soiled with saloon
sawdust—were full of holes. He wore no tie. His handsome purple shirt,
open at the neck, revealed a gold crucifix. The shirt was torn and in
places hung out over his trousers. And for some reason he wore two hats,
a kind of cheap Homburg fitting neatly over the broad crown of his
sombrero.

“How do you mean Spaniard?” Hugh said.

“They came over after the Moroccan war,” the Consul said. “A pelado,” he
added, smiling.

The smile referred to an argument about this word he’d had with Hugh,
who’d seen it defined somewhere as a shoeless illiterate. According to
the Consul, this was only one meaning; pelados were indeed “peeled
ones,” the stripped, but also those who did not have to be rich to prey
on the really poor. For instance those halfbreed petty politicians who
will, in order to get into office just for one year, in which year they
hope to put by enough to forswear work the rest of their lives, do
literally anything whatsoever, from shining shoes, to acting as one who
was not an “aerial pigeon.” Hugh understood this word finally to be
pretty ambiguous. A Spaniard, say, could interpret it as Indian, the
Indian he despised, used, made drunk. The Indian, however, might mean
Spaniard by it. Either might mean by it anyone who made a show of
himself. It was perhaps one of those words that had actually been
distilled out of conquest, suggesting, as it did, on the one hand thief,
on the other exploiter. Interchangeable ever were the terms of abuse
with which the aggressor discredits those about to be ravaged!

The hill behind them, the bus was stopping opposite the foot of an
avenue, with fountains, leading to an hotel: the Casino de la Selva.
Hugh made out tennis courts, and white figures moving, the Consul’s eyes
pointed—there were Dr. Vigil and M. Laruelle. M. Laruelle, if it was
he, tossed a ball high into the blue, smacked it down, but Vigil walked
right past it, crossing to the other side.

Here the American highway really began; and they enjoyed a brief stretch
of good road. The camión reached the railway station, sleepy, signals
up, points locked in somnolence. It was closed like a book. Unusual
pullmans snored along a siding. On the embankment Pearce oiltanks were
pillowed. Their burnished silver lightning alone was awake, playing
hide-and-seek among the trees. And on that lonely platform to-night he
himself would stand, with his pilgrim’s bundle.

                      ──────────────────────────────

                               QUAUHNAHUAC

                      ──────────────────────────────

“How are you?” (meaning how much more!) Hugh smiled, leaning over to
Yvonne.

“This is _such_ fun—”

Like a child Hugh wanted everyone to be happy on a trip. Even had they
been going to the cemetery he would have wanted them to be happy. But
Hugh felt more as if, fortified by a pint of bitter, he were going to
play in some important “away” match for a school fifteen in which he’d
been included at the last minute: when the dread, hard as nails and
boots, of the foreign twenty-five line, of the whiter, taller goalposts,
expressed itself in a strange exaltation, an urgent desire to chatter.
The noonday languor had passed him by: yet the naked realities of the
situation, like the spokes of a wheel, were blurred in motion toward
unreal high events. This trip now seemed to him the best of all possible
ideas. Even the Consul seemed still in a good mood. But communication
between them all soon became again virtually impossible; the American
highway rolled away into the distance.

They left it abruptly, rough stone walls shut out the view. Now they
were rattling between leafy hedges full of wild flowers with deep royal
blue bells. Possibly, another kind of convolvulus. Green and white
clothing hung on the cornstalks outside the low grass-roofed houses.
Here the bright blue flowers climbed right up into the trees that were
already snowy with blooms.

To their right, beyond a wall that suddenly became much higher, now lay
their grove of the morning. And here, announced by its smell of beer,
was the Cervecería Quauhnahuac itself. Yvonne and Hugh, around the
Consul, exchanged a look of encouragement and friendship. The massive
gate was still open. How swiftly they clattered past! Yet not before
Hugh had seen again the blackened and leaf-covered tables and, in the
distance, the fountain choked with leaves. The little girl with the
armadillo had gone, but the visored man resembling a gamekeeper was
standing alone in the courtyard, his hands behind his back, watching
them. Along the wall the cypresses stirred gently together, enduring
their dust.

Beyond the level-crossing the Tomalín road became smoother for a time. A
cool breeze blew gratefully through the windows into the hot camión.
Over the plains to their right wound now the interminable narrow-gauge
railway, where—though there were twenty-one other paths they might have
taken!—they had ridden home abreast. And there were the telegraph poles
refusing, forever, that final curve to the left, and striding straight
ahead . . . In the square too they’d talked of nothing but the Consul.
What a relief, and what a joyful relief for Yvonne, when he’d turned up
at the Terminal after all!—But the road was rapidly growing much worse
again, it was now well-nigh impossible to think, let alone talk—

They jogged on into ever rougher and rougher country. Popocatepetl came
in view, an apparition already circling away, that beckoned them
forward. The ravine appeared once more on the scene, patiently creeping
after them in the distance. The camión crashed down a pothole with a
deafening jolt that threw Hugh’s soul between his teeth. And then
crashed into, and over, a second series of deeper potholes:—

“This is like driving _over_ the moon,” he tried to say to Yvonne.

She couldn’t hear . . . He noticed new fine lines about her mouth, a
weariness that had not been there in Paris. Poor Yvonne! May she be
happy. May everything come, somehow, right. May we all be happy. God
bless us. Hugh now wondered if he should produce, from his inside
pocket, a very small pinch bottle of habanero he had acquired, against
emergency, in the square, and frankly offer the Consul a drink. But he
obviously didn’t need it yet. A faint calm smile played about the
Consul’s lips which from time to time moved slightly, as if, in spite of
the racket, the swaying and jolting, and their continually being sent
sprawling against one another, he were solving a chess problem, or
reciting something to himself.

Then they were hissing along a good stretch of oiled road through flat
wooded country with neither volcano nor ravine in sight. Yvonne had
turned sideways and her clear profile sailed along reflected in the
window. The more even sounds of the bus wove into Hugh’s brain an
idiotic syllogism: I am losing the Battle of the Ebro, I am also losing
Yvonne, therefore Yvonne is . . .

The camión was now somewhat fuller. In addition to thepeladoo and the
old women there were men dressed in their Sunday best, white trousers
and purple shirts, and one or two younger women in mourning, probably
going to the cemeteries. The poultry were a sad sight. All alike had
submitted to their fate; hens, cocks, and turkeys, whether in their
baskets, or still loose. With only an occasional flutter to show they
were alive they crouched passively under the long seats, their emphatic
spindly claws bound with cord. Two pullets lay, frightened and
quivering, between the hand brake and the clutch, their wings linked
with the levers. Poor things, they had signed their Munich agreement
too. One of the turkeys even looked remarkably like Neville Chamberlain.
_Su salud estará a salvo no escupiendo en el interior de este vehículo_:
these words, over the windscreen, ran the entire breadth of the bus.
Hugh concentrated upon different objects in the camión; the driver’s
small mirror with the legend running round it—_Cooperación de la Cruz
Roja_, the three picture postcards of the Virgin Mary pinned beside it,
the two slim vases of marguerites over the dashboard, the gangrened fire
extinguisher, the dungaree jacket and whiskbroom under the seat where
the pelado was sitting—he watched him as they hit another bad stretch
of road.

Swaying from side to side with his eyes shut, the man was trying to tuck
in his shirt. Now he was methodically buttoning his coat on the wrong
buttons. But it struck Hugh all this was merely preparatory, a sort of
grotesque toilet. For, still without opening his eyes, he had now
somehow found room to lie full-length on the seat. It was extraordinary,
too, how, stretched out, a corpse, he yet preserved the appearance of
knowing everything that was going on. Despite his stupor, he was a man
on guard. The half-melon jumped from his hand, the chawed fragment full
of seeds like raisins rolled on the seat; those closed eyes saw it. His
crucifix was slipping off; he was conscious of it. The Homburg fell from
his sombrero, slid to the floor, he knew all about it, though he made no
effort to pick the hat up. He was guarding himself against theft, while
at the same time gathering strength for more debauchery. In order to get
into another cantina not his brother’s he might have to walk straight.
Such prescience was worthy of admiration.

Nothing but pines, fircones, stones, black earth. Yet that earth looked
parched, those stones, unmistakably, volcanic. Everywhere, quite as
Prescott informed one, were attestations to Popocatepetl’s presence and
antiquity. And here the damned thing was again! Why were there volcanic
eruptions? People pretended not to know. Because, they might suggest
tentatively, under the rocks beneath the surface of the earth, steam,
its pressure constantly rising, was generated; because the rocks and the
water, decomposing, formed gases, which combined with the molten
material from below; because the watery rocks near the surface were
unable to restrain the growing complex of pressures, and the whole mass
exploded; the lava flooded out, the gases escaped, and there was your
eruption.—But not your explanation. No, the whole thing was a complete
mystery still. In movies of eruptions people were always seen standing
in the midst of the encroaching flood, delighted by it. Walls fell over,
churches collapsed, whole families moved away their possessions in a
panic, but there were always these people, jumping about between the
streams of molten lava, smoking cigarettes . . .

Christ! He hadn’t realized how fast they were going, in spite of the
road and their being a 1918 Chevrolet, and it seemed to him that because
of this a quite different atmosphere now pervaded the little bus; the
men were smiling, the old women gossiping knowingly and chuckling, two
boys, newcomers hanging on by their eyebrows at the back, were whistling
cheerfully—the bright shirts, the brighter serpentine confetti of
tickets, red, yellow, green, blue, dangling from a loop on the ceiling,
all contributed to a sense of gaiety, a feeling, almost, of the fiesta
itself again, that hadn’t been there before.

But the boys were dropping off, one by one, and the gaiety, short-lived
as a burst of sunlight, departed. Brutal-looking candelabra cactus swung
past, a ruined church, full of pumpkins, windows bearded with grass.
Burned, perhaps, in the revolution, its exterior was blackened with
fire, and it had an air of being damned.

—The time has come for you to join your comrades, to aid the workers,
he told Christ, who agreed. It had been His idea all the while, only
until Hugh had rescued Him those hypocrites had kept Him shut up inside
the burning church where He couldn’t breathe. Hugh made a speech. Stalin
gave him a medal and listened sympathetically while he explained what
was on his mind. “True . . . I wasn’t in time to save the Ebro, but I
did strike my blow—” He went off, the star of Lenin on his lapel; in
his pocket a certificate; Hero of the Soviet Republic, and the True
Church, pride and love in his heart—

Hugh looked out of the window. Well, after all. Silly bastard. But the
queer thing was, that love was real. Christ, why can’t we be simple,
Christ Jesus why may we not be simple, why may we not all be brothers?

Buses with odd names on them, a procession out of a side road, were
bobbing past in the opposite direction: buses to Tetecala, to Jujuta, to
Xuitepec: buses to Xochitepec, to Xoxitepec—

Popocatepetl loomed, pyramidal, to their right, one side beautifully
curved as a woman’s breast, the other precipitous, jagged, ferocious.
Cloud drifts were massing again, high-piled, behind it. Ixtaccihuatl
appeared . . .

—_Xiutepecanochtitlantehuantepec_, _Quintanarooroo_, _Tlacolula_,
_Moctezuma_, _Juarez_, _Puebla_, _Tlampam_—bong! suddenly snarled the
bus. They thundered on, passing little pigs trotting along the road, an
Indian screening sand, a bald boy, with earrings, sleepily scratching
his stomach and swinging madly on a hammock. Advertisements on ruined
walls swam by. Atchis! Instante! Resfriados, Dolores, Cafeasperina.
Rechace Imitaciones. Las Manos de Orlac. Con Peter Lorre.

When there was a bad patch the bus rattled and sideslipped ominously,
once it altogether ran off the road, but its determination outweighed
these waverings, one was pleased at last to have transferred one’s
responsibilities to it, lulled into a state from which it would be pain
to waken.

Hedges, with low steep banks, in which grew dusty trees, were hemming
them in on either side. Without decreasing pace they were running into a
narrow, sunken section of road, winding, and so reminiscent of England
one expected at any point to see a sign: Public Footpath to Lostwithiel.

¡_Desviación_! ¡_Hombres Trabajando_!

With a yelping of tires and brakes they made the detour leftward too
quickly. But Hugh had seen a man, whom they’d narrowly missed,
apparently lying fast asleep under the hedge on the right side of the
road.

Neither Geoffrey nor Yvonne, staring sleepily out of the opposite
window, had seen him. Nor did anyone else, were they aware of it, seem
to think it peculiar a man should choose to sleep, however perilous his
position, in the sun on the main road.

Hugh leaned forward to call out, hesitated, then tapped the driver on
the shoulder; almost at the same moment the bus leaped to a standstill.

Guiding the whining vehicle swiftly, steering an erratic course with one
hand, the driver, craning out of his seat to watch the corners behind
and before, reversed out of the detour back into the narrow highway.

The friendly harsh smell of exhaust gases was tempered with the hot tar
smell from the repairs, ahead of them now, where the road was broader
with a wide grass margin between it and the hedge, though nobody was
working there, everyone knocked off for the day possibly hours before,
and there was nothing to be seen, just the soft, indigo carpet sparkling
and sweating away to itself.

There appeared now, standing alone in a sort of rubbish heap where this
grass margin stopped, opposite the detour, a stone wayside cross.
Beneath it lay a milk bottle, a funnel, a sock, and part of an old
suitcase.

And now, further back still, in the road, Hugh saw the man again. His
face covered by a wide hat, he was lying peacefully on his back with his
arms stretched out toward this wayside cross, in whose shadow, twenty
feet away, he might have found a grassy bed. Nearby stood a horse meekly
cropping the hedge.

As the bus jerked to another stop the pelado, who was still lying down,
almost slid from the seat to the floor. Managing to recover himself
though, he not only reached his feet and an equilibrium he contrived
remarkably to maintain but had, with one strong counter-movement,
arrived halfway to the exit, crucifix fallen safely in place around his
neck, hats in one hand, what remained of the melon in the other. With a
look that might have withered at its inception any thought of stealing
them, he placed the hats carefully on a vacant seat near the door, then,
with exaggerated care, let himself down to the road. His eyes were still
only half open, and they preserved a dead glaze. Yet there could be no
doubt he had already taken in the whole situation. Throwing away the
melon he started over towards the man, stepping tentatively, as over
imaginary obstacles. But his course was straight, he held himself erect.

Hugh, Yvonne, the Consul, and two of the male passengers got out and
followed him. None of the old women moved.

It was stiflingly hot in the sunken deserted road. Yvonne gave a nervous
cry and turned on her heel; Hugh caught her arm.

“Don’t mind me. It’s just that I can’t stand the sight of blood, damn
it.”

She was climbing back into the camión as Hugh came up with the Consul
and the two passengers.

The pelado was swaying gently over the recumbent man who was dressed in
the usual loose white garments of the Indian.

There was not, however, much blood in sight, save on one side of his
hat.

But the man was certainly not sleeping peacefully. His chest heaved like
a spent swimmer’s, his stomach contracted and dilated rapidly, one fist
clenched and unclenched in the dust . . .

Hugh and the Consul stood helplessly, each, he thought, waiting for the
other to remove the Indian’s hat, to expose the wound each felt must be
there, checked from such action by a common reluctance, perhaps an
obscure courtesy. For each knew the other was also thinking it would be
better still should one of the passengers, even the pelado, examine the
man.

As nobody made any move at all Hugh grew impatient. He shifted from foot
to foot. He looked at the Consul expectantly: he’d been in this country
long enough to know what should be done, moreover he was the one among
them most nearly representing authority. Yet the Consul seemed lost in
reflection. Suddenly Hugh stepped forward impulsively and bent over the
Indian—one of the passengers plucked his sleeve.

“Har you throw your cigarette?”

“Throw it away.” The Consul woke up. “Forest fires.”

“Sí, they have prohibidated it.”

Hugh stamped his cigarette out and was about to bend over the man once
more when the passenger again plucked his sleeve:

“No, no,” he said, tapping his nose, “they har prohibidated that,
también.”

“You can’t touch him—it’s the law,” said the Consul sharply, who looked
now as though he would like to get as far from this scene as possible,
if necessary even by means of the Indian’s horse. “For his protection.
Actually it’s a sensible law. Otherwise you might become an accessory
after the fact.”

The Indian’s breathing sounded like the sea dragging itself down a stone
beach.

A single bird flew, high.

“But the man may be dy—” Hugh muttered to Geoffrey.

“God, I feel terrible,” the Consul replied, though it was a fact he was
about to take some action, when the pelado anticipated him: he went down
on one knee and, quick as lightning, whipped off the Indian’s hat.

They all peered over, seeing the cruel wound on the side of his head,
where the blood had almost coagulated, the flushed moustachioed face
turned aside, and before they stood back Hugh caught a glimpse of a sum
of money, four or five silver pesos and a handful of centavos, that had
been placed neatly under the loose collar to the man’s blouse, which
partly concealed it. The pelado replaced the hat and, straightening
himself, made a hopeless gesture with hands now blotched with half-dried
blood.

How long had he been here, lying in the road?

Hugh gazed after the pelado on his way back to the camión, and then,
once more, at the Indian, whose life, as they talked, seemed gasping
away from them all. “Diantre! Dónde buscamos un médico?” he asked
stupidly.

This time from the camión, the pelado made again that gesture of
hopelessness, which was also like a gesture of sympathy: what could they
do, he appeared trying to convey to them through the window, how could
they have known, when they got out, that they could do nothing?

“Move his hat further down though so that he can get some air,” the
Consul said, in a voice that betrayed a trembling tongue; Hugh did this
and, so swiftly he did not have time to see the money again, also placed
the Consul’s handkerchief over the wound, leaving it held in place by
the balanced sombrero.

The driver now came for a look, tall, in his white shirt sleeves, and
soiled whipcord breeches like bellows, inside high-laced, dirty boots.
With his bare touselled head, laughing dissipated intelligent face,
shambling yet athletic gait, there was something lonely and likeable
about this man whom Hugh had seen twice before walking by himself in the
town.

Instinctively you trusted him. Yet here, his indifference seemed
remarkable; still, he had the responsibility of the bus, and what could
he do, with his pigeons?

From somewhere above the clouds a lone plane let down a single sheaf of
sound.

—“Pobrecito.”

—“Chingar.”

Hugh was aware that gradually these remarks had been taken up as a kind
of refrain around him—for their presence, together with the camión
having stopped at all, had ratified approach at least to the extent that
another male passenger, and two peasants, hitherto unnoticed, and who
knew nothing, had joined the group about the stricken man whom nobody
touched again—a quiet rustling of futility, a rustling of whispers, in
which the dust, the heat, the bus itself with its load of immobile old
women and doomed poultry, might have been conspiring, while only these
two words, the one of compassion, the other of obscene contempt, were
audible above the Indian’s breathing.

The driver, having returned to his camión, evidently satisfied all was
as it should be save he had stopped on the wrong side of the road, now
began to blow his horn, yet far from this producing the desired effect,
the rustling punctuated by a heckling accompaniment of indifferent
blasts, turned into a general argument.

Was it robbery, attempted murder, or both? The Indian had probably
ridden from market, where he’d sold his wares, with much more than that
four or five pesos hidden by the hat, with mucho dinero, so that a good
way to avoid suspicion of theft was to leave a little of the money, as
had been done. Perhaps it wasn’t robbery at all, he had only been thrown
from his horse? Posseebly. Imposseebly.

Sí, hombre, but hadn’t the police been called? But clearly somebody was
already going for help. Chingar. One of them now should go for help, for
the police. An ambulance—the Cruz Roja—where was the nearest phone?

But it was absurd to suppose the police were not on their way. How could
the chingados be on their way when half of them were on strike? No it
was only a quarter of them that were on strike. They would be on their
way, all right though. A taxi? No, hombre, there was a strike there
too.—But was there any truth, someone chimed in, in the rumour that the
Servicio de Ambulancia had been suspended? It was not a red, but a green
cross anyhow, and their business began only when they were informed. Get
Dr. Figueroa. Un hombre noble. But there was no phone. Oh, there was a
phone once, in Tomalín, but it had decomposed. No, Doctor Figueroa had a
nice new phone. Pedro, the son of Pepe, whose mother-in-law was
Josefina, who also knew, it was said, Vicente González, had carried it
through the streets himself.

Hugh (who had wildly thought of Vigil playing tennis, of Guzmán, wildly
of the habanero in his pocket) and the Consul also had their personal
argument. For the fact remained, whoever had placed the Indian by the
roadside—though in that case why not on the grass, by the cross?—who
had slipped the money for safety in his collar—but perhaps it slipped
there of its own accord—who had providently tied his horse to the tree
in the hedge it was now cropping—yet was it necessarily his
horse?—probably was, whoever he was, wherever he was—or they were, who
acted with such wisdom and compassion—even now getting help.

There was no limit to their ingenuity. Though the most potent and final
obstacle to doing anything about the Indian was this discovery that it
wasn’t one’s own business, but someone else’s. And looking round him,
Hugh saw that this too was just what everyone else was arguing. It is
not my business, but, as it were, yours, they all said, as they shook
their heads, and no, not yours either, but someone else’s, their
objections becoming more and more involved, more and more theoretical,
till at last the discussion began to take a political turn.

This turn, as it happened, made no sense to Hugh, who was thinking that
had Joshua appeared at this moment to make the sun stand still, a more
absolute dislocation of time could not have been created.

Yet it was not that time stood still. Rather was it time was moving at
different speeds, the speed at which the man seemed dying contrasting
oddly with the speed at which everybody was finding it impossible to
make up their minds.

However the driver had given up blowing his horn, he was about to tinker
with the engine, and leaving the unconscious man the Consul and Hugh
walked over to the horse, which, with its cord reins, empty bucket
saddle, and jangling heavy iron sheaths for stirrups, was calmly chewing
the convolvulus in the hedge, looking innocent as only one of its
species can when under mortal suspicion. Its eyes, that had shut blandly
at their approach, now opened, wicked and plausible. There was a sore on
its hipbone and on the beast’s rump a branded number seven.

“Why—good God—this must be the horse Yvonne and I saw this morning!”

“You did, eh? Well.” The Consul made to feel, though did not touch, the
horse’s surcingle. “That’s funny . . . So did I. That is, I think I saw
it.” He glanced over at the Indian in the road as though trying to tear
something out of his memory. “Did you notice if it had any saddlebags on
when you saw it? It had when I think I saw it.”

“It must be the same fellow.”

“I don’t suppose if the horse kicked the man to death it would have
sufficient intelligence to kick its saddlebags off too, and hide them
somewhere, do you—”

But the bus, with a terrific hooting, was going off without them.

It came at them a little, then stopped, in a wider part of the road, to
let through two querulous expensive cars that had been held up behind.
Hugh shouted at them to halt, the Consul half waved to someone who
perhaps half recognized him, while the cars, that both bore upon their
rear number-plates the sign “Diplomático,” surged on past, bouncing on
their springs, and brushing the hedges, to disappear ahead in a cloud of
dust. From the second car’s rear seat a Scotch terrier barked at them
merrily.

“The diplomatic thing, doubtless.”

The Consul went to see to Yvonne; the other passengers, shielding their
faces against the dust, climbed on board the bus which had continued to
the detour where, stalled, it waited still as death, as a hearse. Hugh
ran to the Indian. His breathing sounded fainter, and yet more laboured.
An uncontrollable desire to see his face again seized Hugh and he
stooped over him. Simultaneously the Indian’s right hand raised itself
in a blind groping gesture, the hat was partially pushed away, a voice
muttered or groaned one word:

“Compañero.”

—“The hell they won’t,” Hugh was saying, why he scarcely knew, a moment
later to the Consul. But he’d detained the camión, whose engine had
started once more, a little longer, and he watched the three smiling
vigilantes approach, tramping through the dust, with their holsters
slapping their thighs.

“Come on, Hugh, they won’t let you on the bus with him, and you’ll only
get hauled into gaol and entangled in red tape for Christ knows how
long,” the Consul was saying. “They’re not the pukka police anyhow, only
those birds I told you about . . . Hugh—”

“Momentito—” Hugh was almost immediately expostulating with one of the
vigilantes—the other two had gone over to the Indian—while the driver,
wearily, patiently, honked. Then the policeman pushed Hugh towards the
bus: Hugh pushed back. The policeman dropped his hand and began to
fumble with his holster: it was a manoeuvre, not to be taken seriously.
With his other hand he gave Hugh a further shove, so that, to maintain
balance, Hugh was forced to ascend the rear step of the bus which, at
that instant suddenly, violently, moved away with them. Hugh would have
jumped down only the Consul, exerting his strength, held him pinned to a
stanchion.

“Never mind, old boy, it would have been worse than the
windmills.”—“What windmills?”

Dust obliterated the scene . . .

The bus thundered on, reeling, cannonading, drunk. Hugh sat staring at
the quaking, shaking floor.

—Something like a tree stump with a tourniquet on it, a severed leg in
an army boot that someone picked up, tried to unlace, and then put down,
in a sickening smell of petrol and blood, half reverently on the road; a
face that gasped for a cigarette, turned grey, and was cancelled;
headless things, that sat, with protruding windpipes, fallen scalps,
bolt upright in motor cars; children piled up, many hundreds; screaming
burning things; like the creatures, perhaps, in Geoff’s dreams: among
the stupid props of war’s senseless Titus Andronicus, the horrors that
could not even make a good story, but which had been, in a flash, evoked
by Yvonne when they got out, Hugh, moderately case-hardened, could have
acquitted himself, have done something, have not done nothing . . .

Keep the patient absolutely quiet in a darkened room. Brandy may
sometimes be given to the dying.

Hugh guiltily caught the eye of an old woman. Her face was completely
expressionless . . . Ah, how sensible were these old women, who at least
knew their own mind, who had made a silent communal decision to have
nothing to do with the whole affair. No hesitation, no fluster, no fuss.
With what solidarity, sensing danger, they had clutched their baskets of
poultry to them, when they stopped, or peered round to identify their
property, then had sat, as now, motionless. Perhaps they remembered the
days of revolution in the valley, the blackened buildings, the
communications cut off, those crucified and gored in the bull ring, the
pariah dogs barbecued in the market place. There was no callousness in
their faces, no cruelty. Death they knew, better than the law, and their
memories were long. They sat ranked now, motionless, frozen, discussing
nothing, without a word, turned to stone. It was natural to have left
the matter to the men. And yet, in these old women it was as if, through
the various tragedies of Mexican history, pity, the impulse to approach,
and terror, the impulse to escape (as one had learned at college),
having replaced it, had finally been reconciled by prudence, the
conviction it is better to stay where you are.

And what of the other passengers, the younger women in mourning—there
were no women in mourning; they’d all got out, apparently, and walked;
since death, by the roadside, must not be allowed to interfere with
one’s plans for resurrection, in the cemetery. And the men in the purple
shirts, who’d had a good look at what was going on, yet hadn’t stirred
from the bus? Mystery. No one could be more courageous than a Mexican.
But this was not clearly a situation demanding courage. Frijoles for
all: Tierra, Libertad, Justicia y Ley. Did all that mean anything? Quién
sabe? They weren’t sure of anything save that it was foolish to get
mixed up with the police, especially if they weren’t proper police; and
this went equally for the man who’d plucked Hugh’s sleeve, and the two
other passengers who’d joined in the argument around the Indian, now all
dropping off the bus going full speed, in their graceful, devil-may-care
fashion.

While as for him, the hero of the Soviet Republic and the True Church,
what of him, old camarado, had he been found wanting? Not a bit of it.
With the unerring instinct of all war correspondents with any first-aid
training he had been only too ready to produce the wet blue bag, the
lunar caustic, the camel’s hair brush.

He had remembered instantly that the word shelter must be understood as
including an extra wrap or umbrella or temporary protection against the
rays of the sun. He had been on the lookout immediately for possible
clues to diagnosis such as broken ladders, stains of blood, moving
machinery, and restive horses. He had, but it hadn’t done any good,
unfortunately.

And the truth was, it was perhaps one of those occasions when nothing
_would_ have done any good. Which only made it worse than ever. Hugh
raised his head and half looked at Yvonne. The Consul had taken her hand
and she was holding his hand tightly.

The camión, hastening toward Tomalín, rolled and swayed as before. Some
more boys had jumped on the rear, and were whistling. The bright tickets
winked with the bright colours. There were more passengers, they came
running across the fields, and the men looked at each other with an air
of agreement, the bus was outdoing itself, it had never before gone so
fast, which must be because it too knew to-day was a holiday.

An acquaintance of the driver’s, perhaps the driver for the return
journey, had by now added himself to the vehicle. He dodged round the
outside of the bus with native skill, taking the fares through the open
windows. Once, when they were breasting an incline, he even dropped off
to the road on the left, swerved round behind the camión at a run, to
appear again on the right, grinning in at them clownishly.

A friend of his sprang on the bus. They crouched, one on either side of
the bonnet, by the two front mudguards, ever so often joining hands over
the radiator cap, while the first man, leaning dangerously outwards,
looked back to see if one of the rear tires, which had acquired a slow
puncture, was holding. Then he went on taking fares.

Dust, dust, dust—it filtered in through the windows, a soft invasion of
dissolution, filling the vehicle.

Suddenly the Consul was nudging Hugh, inclining his head toward the
pelado, whom Hugh had not forgotten however: he had been sitting bolt
upright all this time, fidgeting with something in his lap, coat
buttoned, both hats on, crucifix adjusted, and wearing much the same
expression as before, though after his oddly exemplary behavior in the
road, he seemed much refreshed and sobered.

Hugh nodded, smiling, lost interest; the Consul nudged him again:

“Do you see what I see?”

“What is it?”

Hugh shook his head, looked obediently toward the pelado, could see
nothing, then saw, at first without comprehending.

The pelado’s smeared conquistador’s hands, that had clutched the melon,
now clutched a sad bloodstained pile of silver pesos and centavos.

The pelado had stolen the dying Indian’s money.

Moreover, surprised at this point by the conductor grinning in the
window, he carefully selected some coppers from this little pile, smiled
round at the preoccupied passengers as though he almost expected some
comment to be made upon his cleverness, and paid his fare with them.

But no comment was made, for the good reason none save the Consul and
Hugh seemed aware quite how clever he was.

Hugh now produced the small pinch bottle of habanero, handing it to
Geoff, who passed it to Yvonne. She choked, had still noticed nothing;
and it was as simple as that; they all took a short drink.

—What was so astonishing on second thoughts was not that on an impulse
the pelado should have stolen the money, but that he was making now only
this half-hearted effort to conceal it, that he should be continually
opening and closing his palm with the bloody silver and copper coins for
anyone to see who wished.

It occurred to Hugh he was not trying to conceal it at all, that he was
perhaps attempting to persuade the passengers, even though they knew
nothing about it, that he had acted from motives explicable as just,
that he had taken the money merely to keep it safe which, as had just
been shown by his own action, no money could reasonably be called in a
dying man’s collar on the Tomalín road, in the shadow of the Sierra
Madre.

And further, suppose he were suspected of being a thief, his eyes, that
were now fully open, almost alert, and full of mischief, said to them,
and were arrested, what chance then would the Indian should he survive
have of seeing his money again? Of course, none, as everyone well knew.
The real police might be honourable, of the people. But were he arrested
by these deputies, these other fellows, they would simply steal it from
him, that much was certain, as they would even now be stealing it from
the Indian, but for his kindly action.

Nobody, therefore, who was genuinely concerned about the Indian’s money,
must suspect anything of the sort, or at any rate, must not think too
clearly about it; even if now, in the camión, he should choose to stop
juggling the money from hand to hand, like that, or slip part of it into
his pocket, like that, or even supposing what remained happened to slip
accidentally into his other pocket, like that—and this performance was
undoubtedly rather for their own benefit, as witnesses and
foreigners—no significance attached to it, none of these gestures meant
that he had been a thief, or that, in spite of excellent intentions, he
had decided to steal the money after all, and become a thief.

And this remained true, whatever happened to the money, since his
possession of it was open and above board, for all the world to know
about. It was a recognized thing, like Abyssinia.

The conductor went on taking the remaining fares and now, concluded,
gave them to the driver. The bus trampled on faster; the road narrowed
again, becoming dangerous.

Downhill . . . The driver kept his hand on the screaming emergency brake
as they circled down into Tomalín. On the right was a sheer unguarded
drop, a huge scrub-covered dusty hill leaned from the hollow below, with
trees jutting out sideways—

Ixtaccihuatl had sideslipped out of sight but as, descending, they
circled round and round, Popocatepetl slid in and out of view
continually, never appearing the same twice, now far away, then vastly
near at hand, incalculably distant at one moment, at the next looming
round the corner with its splendid thickness of sloping fields, valleys,
timber, its summit swept by clouds, slashed by hail and snow . . .

Then a white church, and they were in a town once more, a town of one
long street, a cul-de-sac, and many paths, that converged upon a small
lake or reservoir ahead, in which people were swimming, beyond which lay
the forest. By this lake was the bus stop.

The three of them stood again in the dust, dazzled by the whiteness, the
blaze of the afternoon. The old women and the other passengers had gone.
From a doorway came the plangent chords of a guitar, and at hand was the
refreshing sound of rushing water, of a falls. Geoff pointed the way and
they set off in the direction of the Arena Tomalín.

But the driver and his acquaintance were going into a pulquería. They
were followed by the pelado. He walked very straight, stepping high, and
holding his hats on, as though the wind were blowing, on his face a
fatuous smile, not of triumph, almost of entreaty.

He would join them; some arrangement would be made. Quién sabe?

They stared after them as the twin doors of the tavern swung to:—it had
a pretty name, the Todos Contentos y Yo También. The Consul said nobly:

“Everybody happy, including me.”

And including those, Hugh thought, who effortlessly, beautifully, in the
blue sky above them, floated, the vultures—xopilotes, who wait only for
the ratification of death.




                                   IX


ARENA Tomalín . . .

—What a wonderful time everybody was having, how happy they were, how
happy everyone was! How merrily Mexico laughed away its tragic history,
the past, the underlying death!

It was as though she had never left Geoffrey, never gone to America,
never suffered the anguish of the last year, as though even, Yvonne felt
a moment, they were in Mexico again for the first time; there was that
same warm poignant happy sense, indefinable, illogically, of sorrow that
would be overcome, of hope—for had not Geoffrey met her at the Bus
Terminal?—above all of hope, of the future—

A smiling, bearded giant, a white serape decorated with cobalt dragons
flung over his shoulder, proclaimed it. He was stalking importantly
around the arena, where the boxing would be on Sunday, propelling
through the dust—the “Rocket” it might have been, the first locomotive.

It was a marvellous peanut wagon. She could see its little donkey engine
toiling away minutely inside, furiously grinding the peanuts. How
delicious, how good, to feel oneself, in spite of all the strain and
stress of the day, the journey, the bus, and now the crowded rickety
grandstand, part of the brilliantly colored serape of existence, part of
the sun, the smells, the laughter!

From time to time the peanut wagon’s siren jerked, its fluted smokestack
belched, its polished whistle shrieked. Apparently the giant didn’t want
to sell any peanuts. Simply, he couldn’t resist showing off this engine
to everyone: see, this is my possession, my joy, my faith, perhaps even
(he would like it to be imagined) my invention! And everyone loved him.

He was pushing the wagon, all of a final triumphant belch and squeal,
from the arena just as the bull shot out of a gate on the opposite side.

A merry bull at heart too—obviously. Por qué no? It knew it wasn’t
going to be killed, merely to play, to participate in the gaiety. But
the bull’s merriment was controlled as yet; after its explosive entrance
it began to cruise round the edge of the ring slowly, thoughtfully,
though raising much dust. It was prepared to enjoy the game as much as
anyone, at its own expense if need be, only its dignity must receive
proper recognition first.

Nevertheless some people sitting on the rude fence that enclosed the
ring scarcely bothered to draw their legs up at its approach, while
others lying prone on the ground just outside, with their heads as if
thrust through luxurious stocks, did not withdraw an inch.

On the other hand some responsive borrachos straying into the ring
prematurely essayed to ride the bull. This was not playing the game: the
bull must be caught in a special way, fair play was in order, and they
were escorted off, tottering, weak-kneed, protesting, yet always gay
. . .

The crowd, in general more pleased with the bull even than with the
peanut vendor, started to cheer. Newcomers gracefully swung up onto
fences, to appear standing there, marvellously balanced, on the top
railings. Muscular hawkers lifted aloft, in one sinewy stretch of the
forearm, heavy trays brimmed with multi-coloured fruits. A boy stood
high upon the crotch of a tree, shading his eyes as he gazed over the
jungle at the volcanoes. He was looking for an airplane in the wrong
direction; she made it out herself, a droning hyphen in abyssal blue.
Thunder was in the air though, at her back somewhere, a tingle of
electricity.

The bull repeated his tour of the ring at a slightly increased, though
still steadily measured, gait, deviating only once when a smart little
dog snapping at his heels made him forget where he was going.

Yvonne straightened her back, pulled down her hat and began to powder
her nose, peering into the traitorous mirror of the bright enamel
compact. It reminded her that only five minutes ago she had been crying
and imaged too, nearer, looking over her shoulder, Popocatepetl.

The volcanoes! How sentimental one could become about them! It was
“volcano” now; however she moved the mirror she couldn’t get poor Ixta
in, who, quite eclipsed, fell away sharply into invisibility, while
Popocatepetl seemed even more beautiful for being reflected, its summit
brilliant against pitch-massed cloud banks. Yvonne ran one finger down
her cheek, drew down an eyelid. It was stupid to have cried, in front of
the little man at the door of Las Novedades too, who’d told them it was
“half past tree by the cock,” then that it was “imposseebly” to phone
because Dr. Figueroa had gone to Xiutepec . . .

“—Forward to the bloody arena then,” the Consul had said savagely, and
she had cried. Which was almost as stupid as to have turned back this
afternoon, not at the sight, but at the mere suspicion of blood. That
was her weakness though, and she remembered the dog that was dying on
the street in Honolulu, rivulets of blood streaked the deserted
pavement, and she had wanted to help, but fainted instead, just for a
minute, and then was so dismayed to find herself lying there alone on
the curb—what if anyone had seen her?—she hurried away without a word,
only to be haunted by the memory of the wretched abandoned creature so
that once—but what was the good thinking of that? Besides, hadn’t
everything possible been done? It wasn’t as if they’d come to the
bullthrowing without first making sure there was no phone. And even had
there been one! So far as she could make out, the poor Indian was
obviously being taken care of when they left, so now she seriously
thought of it, she couldn’t understand why—She gave her hat a final pat
before the mirror, then blinked. Her eyes were tired and playing tricks.
For a second she’d had the awful sensation that, not Popocatepetl, but
the old woman with the dominoes that morning, was looking over her
shoulder. She closed the compact with a snap, and turned to the others
smiling.

Both the Consul and Hugh were staring gloomily at the arena.

From the grandstand around her came a few groans, a few belches, a few
half-hearted olés, as now the bull, with two shuffling broom-like sweeps
of the head along the ground, drove away the dog again and resumed his
circuit of the ring. But no gaiety, no applause. Some of the rail
sitters actually nodded with slumber. Someone else was tearing a
sombrero to pieces while another spectator was trying unsuccessfully to
skim, like a boomerang, a straw hat at a friend. Mexico was not laughing
away her tragic history; Mexico was bored. The bull was bored. Everyone
was bored, perhaps had been all the time. All that had happened was that
Yvonne’s drink in the bus had taken effect and was now wearing off. As
amid boredom the bull circled the arena and, boredom, he now finally sat
down in a corner of it.

“Just like Ferdinand—” Yvonne began, still almost hopefully.

“Nandi,” the Consul (and ah, had he not taken her hand in the bus?)
muttered, peering sideways with one eye through cigarette smoke at the
ring, “the bull. I christen him Nandi, vehicle of Siva, from whose hair
the River Ganges flows and who has also been identified with the Vedic
storm god Vindra—known to the ancient Mexicans as Huracán.”

“For Jesus sake, papa,” Hugh said, “thank you.”

Yvonne sighed; it was a tiresome and odious spectacle, really. The only
people happy were the drunks. Gripping tequila or mescal bottles they
tottered into the ring, approached the recumbent Nandi and sliding and
tripping over each other were chased out again by several charros, who
now attempted to drag the miserable bull to its feet.

But the bull would not be dragged. At last a small boy no one had seen
before appeared to nip its tail with his teeth, and as the boy ran away,
the animal clambered up convulsively. Instantly it was lassoed by a
cowboy mounted on a malicious-looking horse. The bull soon kicked itself
free: it had been roped only around one foot, and walked from the scene
shaking its head, then catching sight of the dog once more, wheeled, and
pursued it a short distance . . .

There was suddenly more activity in the arena. Presently everyone there,
whether on horseback, pompously, or on foot—running or standing still,
or swaying with an old serape or rug or even a rag held out—was trying
to attract the bull.

The poor old creature seemed now indeed like someone being drawn, lured,
into events of which he has no real comprehension, by people with whom
he wishes to be friendly, even to play, who entice him by encouraging
that wish and by whom, because they really despise and desire to
humiliate him, he is finally entangled.

. . . Yvonne’s father made his way toward her, through the seats,
hovering, responding eagerly as a child to anyone who held out a
friendly hand, her father, whose laughter in memory still sounded so
warmly rich and generous, and whom the small sepia photograph she still
carried with her depicted as a young captain in the uniform of the
Spanish-American war, with earnest candid eyes beneath a high fine brow,
a full-lipped sensitive mouth beneath the dark silky moustache, and a
cleft chin—her father, with his fatal craze for invention, who had once
so confidently set out for Hawaii to make his fortune by raising
pineapples. In this he had not succeeded. Missing army life, and abetted
by his friends, he wasted time tinkering over elaborate projects. Yvonne
had heard that he’d tried to make synthetic hemp from the pineapple tops
and even attempted to harness the volcano behind their estate to run the
hemp machine. He sat on the lanai sipping okoolihao and singing
plaintive Hawaiian songs, while the pineapples rotted in the fields, and
the native help gathered round to sing with him, or slept through the
cutting season, while the plantation ran into weeds and ruin, and the
whole place hopelessly into debt. That was the picture; Yvonne
remembered little of the period save her mother’s death. Yvonne was then
six. The World War, together with the final foreclosure, was
approaching, and with it the figure of her Uncle Macintyre, her mother’s
brother, a wealthy Scotchman with financial interests in South America,
who had long prophesied his brother-in-law’s failure, and yet to whose
large influence it was undoubtedly due that, all at once and to
everyone’s surprise, Captain Constable became American consul to
Iquique.

—Consul to Iquique! . . . Or Quauhnahuac! How many times in the misery
of the last year had Yvonne not tried to free herself of her love for
Geoffrey by rationalising it away, by analysing it away, by telling
herself—Christ, after she’d waited, and written, at first hopefully,
with all her heart, then urgently, frantically, at last despairingly,
waited and watched every day for the letter—ah, that daily crucifixion
of the post!

She looked at the Consul, whose face for a moment seemed to have assumed
that brooding expression of her father’s she remembered so well during
those long war years in Chile. Chile! It was as if that republic of
stupendous coastline yet narrow girth, where all thoughts bring up at
Cape Horn, or in the nitrate country, had had a certain attenuating
influence on his mind. For what, precisely, was her father brooding
about all that time, more spiritually isolated in the land of Bernardo
O’Higgins than was once Robinson Crusoe, only a few hundred miles from
the same shores? Was it of the outcome of the war itself, or of obscure
trade agreements he perhaps initiated, or the lot of American sailors
stranded in the Tropic of Capricorn? No, it was upon a single notion
that had not, however, reached its fruition till after the armistice.
Her father had invented a new kind of pipe, insanely complicated, that
one took to pieces for purposes of cleanliness. The pipes came into
something like seventeen pieces, came, and thus remained, since
apparently none save her father knew how to put them together again. It
was a fact that the Captain did not smoke a pipe himself. Nevertheless,
as usual, he had been led on and encouraged . . . When his factory in
Hilo burned down within six weeks of its completion he had returned to
Ohio where he was born and for a time worked in a wire fence company.

And there, it had happened. The bull was hopelessly entangled. Now one,
two, three, four more lassoes, each launched with a new marked lack of
friendliness, caught him. The spectators stamped on the wooden
scaffolding, clapping rhythmically, without enthusiasm.—Yes, it struck
her now that this whole business of the bull was like a life; the
important birth, the fair chance, the tentative, then assured, then
half-despairing circulations of the ring, an obstacle negotiated—a feat
improperly recognised—boredom, resignation, collapse: then another,
more convulsive birth, a new start; the circumspect endeavours to obtain
one’s bearings in a world now frankly hostile, the apparent but
deceptive encouragement of one’s judges, half of whom were asleep, the
swervings into the beginnings of disaster because of that same
negligible obstacle one had surely taken before at a stride, the final
enmeshment in the toils of enemies one was never quite certain weren’t
friends more clumsy than actively ill-disposed, followed by disaster,
capitulation, disintegration—

—The failure of a wire fence company, the failure, rather less emphatic
and final, of one’s father’s mind, what were these things in the face of
God or destiny? Captain Constable’s besetting illusion was that he’d
been cashiered from the army; and everything started up to this imagined
disgrace. He set out on his way back yet once more to Hawaii, the
dementia that arrested him in Los Angeles however, where he discovered
he was penniless, being strictly alcoholic in character.

Yvonne glanced again at the Consul who was sitting, meditative, with
pursed lips, apparently intent on the arena. How little he knew of this
period of her life, of that terror, the terror, terror that still could
wake her in the night from that recurrent nightmare of things
collapsing; the terror that was like that she had been supposed to
portray in the white slave traffic film, the hand clutching her shoulder
through the dark doorway; or the real terror she’d felt when she
actually had been caught in a ravine with two hundred stampeding horses;
no, like Captain Constable himself, Geoffrey had been almost bored,
perhaps ashamed, by all this: that she had, starting when she was only
thirteen, supported her father for five years as an actress in “serials”
and “westerns”; Geoffrey might have nightmares, like her father in this
too, be the only person in the world who ever had such nightmares, but
that _she_ should have them . . . Nor did Geoffrey know much more of the
false real excitement, or the false flat bright enchantment of the
studios, or the childish adult pride, as harsh as it was pathetic, and
justifiable, in having, somehow, at that age, earned a living.

Beside the Consul Hugh took out a cigarette, tapped it on his thumbnail,
noted it was the last in the package, and placed it between his lips. He
put his feet up on the back of the seat beneath him and leaned forward,
resting his elbows on his knees, frowning down into the arena. Then,
fidgeting still, he struck a match, drawing his thumbnail across it with
a crackle like a small cap-pistol, and held it to the cigarette, cupping
his quite beautiful hands, his head bent . . . Hugh was coming toward
her this morning, in the garden, through the sunlight. With his rolling
swagger, his Stetson hat on the back of his head, his holster, his
pistol, his bandolier, his tight trousers tucked inside the elaborately
stitched and decorated boots, she’d thought, just for an instant, that
he was—actually!—Bill Hodson, the cowboy star, whose leading lady
she’d been in three pictures when she was fifteen. Christ, how absurd!
How marvellously absurd! _The Hawaiian Islands gave us this real outdoor
girl who is fond of swimming, golf, dancing, and is also an expert
horsewoman! She . . ._ Hugh hadn’t said one word this morning about how
well she rode, though he’d afforded her not a little secret amusement by
explaining that her horse—miraculously—didn’t want to drink. Such
areas there are in one another we leave, perhaps forever,
unexplored!—She’d never told him a word about her movie career, no, not
even that day in Robinson . . . But it was a pity Hugh himself hadn’t
been old enough to interview her, if not the first time, that second
awful time after Uncle Macintyre sent her to college, and after her
first marriage, and the death of her child, when she had gone back once
more to Hollywood. _Yvonne the Terrible! Look out, you sarong sirens and
glamour girls, Yvonne Constable, the “Boomp Girl,” is back in Hollywood!
Yes, Yvonne is back, determined to conquer Hollywood for the second
time. But she’s twenty-four now, and the “Boomp Girl” has become a
poised exciting woman who wears diamonds and white orchids and
ermine—and a woman who has known the meaning of love and tragedy, who
has lived a lifetime since she left Hollywood a few short years ago. I
found her the other day at her beach home, a honey-tanned Venus just
emerging from the surf. As we talked she gazed out over the water with
her slumbrous dark eyes and the Pacific breezes played with her thick
dark hair. Gazing at her for a moment it was hard to associate the
Yvonne Constable of to-day with the rough-riding serial queen of
yesteryear, but the torso’s still terrific, and the energy is still
absolutely unparalleled! The Honolulu Hellion, who at twelve was a
war-whooping tomboy, crazy about baseball, disobeying everyone but her
adored Dad, whom she called “The Boss-Boss,” became at fourteen a child
actress, and at fifteen, leading lady to Bill Hodson. And she was a
powerhouse even then. Tall for her age, she had a lithe strength that
came from a childhood of swimming and surfboarding in the Hawaiian
breakers. Yes, though you may not think it now, Yvonne has been
submerged in burning lakes, suspended over precipices, ridden horses
down ravines, and she’s an expert at “double pick-offs.” Yvonne laughs
merrily to-day when she remembers the frightened determined girl who
declared she could ride very well indeed, and then, the picture in
progress, the company on location, tried to mount her horse from the
wrong side! A year later she could do a “flying mount” without turning a
hair. “But about that time I was rescued from Hollywood,” as she
smilingly puts it, “and very unwillingly too, by my Uncle Macintyre, who
literally swooped down, after my father died, and sailed me back to
Honolulu!” But when you’ve been a “Boomp Girl” and are well on your way
to being an “Oomph Girl” at eighteen, and when you’ve just lost your
beloved “Boss-Boss,” it’s hard to settle down in a strict loveless
atmosphere. “Uncle Macintyre,” Yvonne admits, “never conceded a jot or
tittle to the tropics. Oh, the mutton broth and oatmeal and hot tea!”
But Uncle Macintyre knew his duty and, after Yvonne had studied with a
tutor, he sent her to the University of Hawaii. There—perhaps, she
says, “because the word ‘star’ had undergone some mysterious
transformation in my mind”—she took a course in astronomy! Trying to
forget the ache in her heart and its emptiness, she forced an interest
in her studies and even dreamed briefly of becoming the “Madame Curie”
of astronomy! And there too, before long, she met the millionaire
playboy, Cliff Wright. He came into Yvonne’s life at a moment when she
was discouraged in her University work, restless under Uncle Macintyre’s
strict régime, lonely, and longing for love and companionship. And Cliff
was young and gay, his rating as an eligible bachelor was absolutely
blue ribbon. It’s easy to see how he was able to persuade her, beneath
the Hawaiian moon, that she loved him, and that she should leave college
and marry him._ (“Don’t tell me for Christ sake about this Cliff,” the
Consul wrote in one of his rare early letters, “I can see him and I hate
the bastard already: short-sighted and promiscuous, six foot three of
gristle and bristle and pathos, of deep-voiced charm and casuistry.” The
Consul had seen him with some astuteness as a matter of fact—poor
Cliff!—one seldom thought of him now and one tried not to think of the
self-righteous girl whose pride had been so outraged by his
infidelities—“business-like, inept and unintelligent, strong and
infantile, like most American men, quick to wield chairs in a fight,
vain, and who, at thirty still ten, turns the act of love into a kind of
dysentery . . .”) _Yvonne has already been a victim of “bad press” about
her marriage and in the inevitable divorce that followed, what she said
was misconstrued, and when she didn’t say anything, her silence was
misinterpreted. And it wasn’t only the press who misunderstood: “Uncle
Macintyre,” she says ruefully, “simply washed his hands of me.”_ (Poor
Uncle Macintyre. It was fantastic, it was almost funny—it was
screamingly funny, in a way, as one related it to one’s friends. She was
a Constable through and through, and no child of her mother’s people!
Let her go the way of the Constables! God knows how many of them had
been caught up in, or invited, the same kind of meaningless tragedy, or
half-tragedy, as herself and her father. They rotted in asylums in Ohio
or dozed in dilapidated drawing rooms in Long Island with chickens
pecking among the family silver and broken teapots that would be found
to contain diamond necklaces. The Constables, a mistake on the part of
nature, were dying out. In fact, nature meant to wipe them out, having
no further use for what was not self-evolving. The secret of their
meaning, if any, had been lost.) _So Yvonne left Hawaii with her head
high and a smile on her lips, even if her heart was more achingly empty
than ever before. And now she’s back in Hollywood and people who know
her best say she has no time in her life now for love, she thinks of
nothing but her work. And at the studio they’re saying the tests she’s
been making recently are nothing short of sensational. The “Boomp Girl”
has become Hollywood’s greatest dramatic actress! So Yvonne Constable,
at twenty-four, is well on the way for the second time to becoming a
star._

—But Yvonne Constable had not become a star for the second time. Yvonne
Constable had not even been on her way to becoming a star. She had
acquired an agent who managed to execute some excellent
publicity—excellent in spite of the fact that publicity of any kind,
she persuaded herself, was one of her greatest secret fears—on the
strength of her earlier rough-riding successes; she received promises,
and that was all. In the end she walked alone down Virgil Avenue or
Mariposa beneath the dusty dead shallow-planted palms of the dark and
accursed City of the Angels without even the consolation that her
tragedy was no less valid for being so stale. For her ambitions as an
actress had always been somewhat spurious: they suffered in some sense
from the dislocations of the functions—she saw this—of womanhood
itself. She saw it, and at the same time, now it was all quite hopeless
(and now that she had, after everything, _outgrown_ Hollywood), saw that
she might under other conditions have become a really first-rate, even a
great artist. For that matter what was she if not that now (if greatly
directed) as she walked or drove furiously through her anguish and all
the red lights, seeing, as might the Consul, the sign in the Town House
window “Informal Dancing in the Zebra Room” turn “Infernal”—or “Notice
to Destroy Weeds” become “Notice to Newlyweds.” While on the
hoarding—“Man’s public inquiry of the hour”—the great pendulum on the
giant blue clock swung ceaselessly. Too late! And it was this, it was
all this that had perhaps helped to make meeting Jacques Laruelle in
Quauhnahuac such a shattering and ominous thing in her life. It was not
merely that they had the Consul in common, so that through Jacques she
had been mysteriously able to reach, in a sense to avail herself of,
what she had never known, the Consul’s innocence; it was only to him
that she’d been able to talk of Hollywood (not always honestly, yet with
the enthusiasm with which close relatives may speak of a hated parent
and with what relief!) on the mutual grounds of contempt and
half-admitted failure. Moreover they discovered that they were both
there in the same year, in 1932, had been once, in fact, at the same
party, outdoor-barbecue-swimming-pool-and-bar; and to Jacques she had
shown also, what she had kept hidden from the Consul, the old
photographs of Yvonne the Terrible dressed in fringed leather shirts and
riding breeches and high-heeled boots, and wearing a ten-gallon hat, so
that in his amazed and bewildered recognition of her this horrible
morning, she had wondered was there not just an instant’s faltering—for
surely Hugh and Yvonne were in some grotesque fashion transposed! . . .
And once too in his studio, where the Consul was so obviously not going
to arrive, M. Laruelle had shown her some stills of his old French
films, one of which it turned out—good heavens!—she’d seen in New York
soon after going east again. And in New York she’d stood once more
(still in Jacques’ studio) on that freezing winter night in Times
Square—she was staying at the Astor—watching the illuminated news
aloft travelling around the Times Building, news of disaster, of
suicide, of banks failing, of approaching war, of nothing at all, which,
as she gazed upward with the crowd, broke off abruptly, snapped off into
darkness, into the end of the world, she had felt, when there was no
more news. Or was it—Golgotha? A bereaved and dispossessed orphan, a
failure, yet rich, yet beautiful, walking, but not back to her hotel, in
the rich fur trappings of alimony, afraid to enter the bars alone whose
warmth she longed for then, Yvonne had felt far more desolate than a
streetwalker; walking—and being followed, always followed—through the
numb brilliant jittering city—_the best for less_, she kept seeing, or
_Dead End_, or _Romeo and Juliet_, and then again, _the best for
less_—that awful darkness had persisted in her mind, blackening still
further her false wealthy loneliness, her guilty divorced dead
helplessness. The electric arrows thrust at her heart—yet they were
cheating: she knew, increasingly frightened by it, that darkness to be
still there, in them, of them. The cripples jerked themselves slowly
past. Men muttered by in whose faces all hope seemed to have died.
Hoodlums with wide purple trousers waited where the icy gale streamed
into open parlours. And everywhere, that darkness, the darkness of a
world without meaning, a world without aim—_the best for less_—but
where everyone save herself, it seemed to her, however hypocritically,
however churlish, lonely, crippled, hopeless, was capable, if only in a
mechanical crane, a cigarette butt plucked from the street, if only in a
bar, if only in accosting Yvonne herself, of finding some faith . . .
_Le Destin de Yvonne Griffaton_ . . . And there she was—and she was
still being followed—standing outside the little cinema in Fourteenth
Street which showed revivals and foreign films. And there, upon the
stills, who could it be, that solitary figure, but herself, walking down
the same dark streets, even wearing the same fur coat, only the signs
above her and around her said: _Dubonnet_, _Amer Picon_, _Les 10
Frattelinis_, _Moulin Rouge_. And “Yvonne, Yvonne!” a voice was saying
at her entrance, and a shadowy horse, gigantic, filling the whole
screen, seemed leaping out of it at her: it was a statue that the figure
had passed, and the voice, an imaginary voice, which pursued Yvonne
Griffaton down the dark streets, and Yvonne herself too, as if she had
walked straight out of that world outside into this dark world on the
screen, without taking breath. It was one of those pictures that even
though you have arrived in the middle, grip you with the instant
conviction that it is the best film you have ever seen in your life; so
extraordinarily complete is its realism, that what the story is all
about, who the protagonist may be, seems of small account beside the
explosion of the particular moment, beside the immediate threat, the
identification with the one hunted, the one haunted, in this case Yvonne
Griffaton—or Yvonne Constable! But if Yvonne Griffaton was being
followed, was being hunted—the film apparently concerned the downfall
of a Frenchwoman of rich family and aristocratic birth—she in turn was
also the hunter, was searching, was groping for something, Yvonne
couldn’t understand what at first, in this shadowy world. Strange
figures froze to the walls, or into alleyways, at her approach: they
were the figures of her past evidently, her lovers, her one true love
who had committed suicide, her father—and as if seeking sanctuary from
them, she had entered a church. Yvonne Griffaton was praying, but the
shadow of one follower fell on the chancel steps: it was her first lover
and at the next moment she was laughing hysterically, she was at the
Folies Bergères, she was at the Opera, the orchestra was playing
Leoncavallo’s Zaza; then she was gambling, the roulette wheel spun
crazily, she was back in her room; and the film turned to satire, to
satire, almost, of itself: her ancestors appeared before her in swift
succession, static dead symbols of selfishness and disaster, but in her
mind romanticised, so it seemed, heroic, standing weary with their backs
to the walls of prisons, standing upright in tumbrels in wooden
gesticulation, shot by the Commune, shot by the Prussians, standing
upright in battle, standing upright in death. And now Yvonne Griffaton’s
father, who had been implicated in the Dreyfus case, came to mock and
mow at her. The sophisticated audience laughed, or coughed, or murmured,
but most of them presumably knew what Yvonne never as it happened even
found out later, how these characters and the events in which they had
participated, contributed to Yvonne Griffaton’s present estate. All this
was buried back in the earlier episodes of the film. Yvonne would have
first to endure the newsreel, the animated cartoon, a piece entitled
_The Life of the African Lungfish_ and a revival of _Scarface_, in order
to see, just as so much that conceivably lent some meaning (though she
doubted even this) to her own destiny was buried in the distant past,
and might for all she knew repeat itself in the future. But what Yvonne
Griffaton was asking herself was now clear. Indeed the English subtitles
made it all too clear. What could she do under the weight of such a
heritage? How could she rid herself of this old man of the sea? Was she
doomed to an endless succession of tragedies that Yvonne Griffaton could
not believe either formed part of any mysterious expiation for the
obscure sins of others long since dead and damned, but were just frankly
meaningless? Yes, how? Yvonne wondered herself. Meaningless—and yet,
_was_ one doomed? Of course one could always romanticise the unhappy
Constables: one could see oneself, or pretend to, as a small lone figure
carrying the burden of those ancestors, their weakness and wildness
(which could be invented where it was lacking) in one’s blood, a victim
of dark forces—everybody was, it was inescapable!—misunderstood and
tragic, yet at least with a will of your own! But what was the use of a
will if you had no faith? This indeed, she saw now, was also Yvonne
Griffaton’s problem. This was what she too was seeking, and had been all
the time, in the face of everything, for some faith—as if one could
find it like a new hat or a house for rent!—yes, even what she was now
on the point of finding, and losing, a faith in a cause, was better than
none. Yvonne felt she had to have a cigarette and when she returned it
looked much as though Yvonne Griffaton had at last succeeded in her
quest. Yvonne Griffaton was finding her faith in life itself, in travel,
in another love, in the music of Ravel. The chords of Bolero strutted
out redundantly, snapping and clicking their heels, and Yvonne Griffaton
was in Spain, in Italy; the sea was seen, Algiers, Cyprus, the desert
with its mirages, the Sphinx. What did all this mean? Europe, Yvonne
thought. Yes, for her, inevitably Europe, the Grand Tour, the Tour
Eiffel, as she had known all along.—But why was it, richly endowed in a
capacity for living as she was, _she_ had never found a faith merely in
“life” sufficient? If that were _all_! . . . In unselfish love—in the
stars! Perhaps it should be enough. And yet, and yet, it was entirely
true, that one had never given up, or ceased to hope, or to try,
gropingly, to find a meaning, a pattern, an answer—

The bull pulled against the opposing forces of ropes a while longer,
then subsided gloomily, swinging his head from side to side with those
shuffling sweeps along the ground, into the dust where, temporarily
defeated but watchful, he resembled some fantastic insect trapped at the
centre of a huge vibrating web . . . Death, or a sort of death, just as
it so often was in life; and now, once more, resurrection. The charros,
making strange knotty passes at the bull with their lariats, were
rigging him for his eventual rider, whereever, and whoever, he might be.

—“Thank you.” Hugh had passed her the pinch bottle of habanero almost
absently. She took a sip and gave it to the Consul who sat holding the
bottle gloomily in his hands without drinking. And had he not, too, met
her at the Bus Terminal?

Yvonne glanced around the grandstand: there was not, so far as she could
see, in this whole gathering one other woman save a gnarled old Mexican
selling pulque. No, she was wrong. An American couple had just climbed
up the scaffolding further down, a woman in a dove-grey suit, and a man
with horn-rimmed spectacles, a slight stoop, and hair worn long at the
back, who looked like an orchestra conductor; it was the couple Hugh and
she had seen before in the zócalo, at a corner Novedades buying
huaraches and strange rattles and masks, and then later, from the bus,
on the church steps, watching the natives dancing. How happy they seemed
in one another; lovers they were, or on their honeymoon. Their future
would stretch out before them pure and untrammelled as a blue and
peaceful lake, and thinking of this Yvonne’s heart felt suddenly light
as that of a boy on his summer holidays, who rises in the morning and
disappears into the sun.

Instantly Hugh’s shack began to take form in her mind. But it was not a
shack—it was a home! It stood, on wide-girthed strong legs of pine,
between the forest of pine and high, high waving alders and tall slim
birches, and the sea. There was the narrow path that wound down through
the forest from the store, with salmonberries and thimbleberries and
wild blackberry bushes that on bright winter nights of frost reflected a
million moons; behind the house was a dogwood tree that bloomed twice in
the year with white stars. Daffodils and snowdrops grew in the little
garden. There was a wide porch where they sat on spring mornings, and a
pier going right out into the water. They would build this pier
themselves when the tide was out, sinking the posts one by one down the
steep slanting beach. Post by post they’d build it until one day they
could dive from the end into the sea. The sea was blue and cold and they
would swim every day, and every day climb back up a ladder onto their
pier, and run straight along it into their house. She saw the house
plainly now; it was small and made of silvery weathered shingles, it had
a red door, and casement windows, open to the sun. She saw the curtains
she had made herself, the Consul’s desk, his favourite old chair, the
bed, covered with brilliant Indian blankets, the yellow light of the
lamps against the strange blue of long June evenings, the crabapple tree
that half supported the open sunny platform where the Consul would work
in summer, the wind in the dark trees above and the surf beating along
the shore on stormy autumn nights; and then the millwheel reflections of
sunlight on water, as Hugh described those on the Cervecería
Quauhnahuac, only sliding down the front of their house, sliding,
sliding, over the windows, the walls, the reflections that, above and
behind the house, turned the pine boughs into green chenille; and at
night they stood on their pier and watched the constellations, Scorpio
and Triangulum, Bootes and the Great Bear, and then the millwheel
reflections would be of moonlight on water ceaselessly sliding down the
wooden walls of silver overlapping shingles, the moonlight that on the
water also embroidered their waving windows—

And it was possible. It was possible! It was all there, waiting for
them. If only she were alone with Geoffrey so she could tell him of it!
Hugh, his cowboy hat on the back of his head, his feet in their
high-heeled boots on the seat in front, seemed now an interloper, a
stranger, part of the scene below. He was watching the rigging of the
bull with intense interest, but becoming conscious of her gaze, his
eyelids drooped nervously and he sought and found his cigarette package,
corroborating its emptiness more with his fingers than his eyes.

Down in the arena a bottle was passed among the men on horseback who
handed it to the others working on the bull. Two of the horsemen
galloped about the ring aimlessly. The spectators bought lemonade,
fruit, potato chips, pulque. The Consul himself made as if to buy some
pulque but changed his mind, fingering the habanero bottle.

More drunks interfered, wanting to ride the bull again; they lost
interest, became sudden horse fanciers, lost that concern too, and were
chased out, careening.

The giant returned with the belching squealing Rocket, vanished, was
sucked away by it. The crowd grew silent, so silent she could almost
make out some sounds that might have been the fair again, in
Quauhnahuac.

Silence was as infectious as mirth, she thought, an awkward silence in
one group begetting a loutish silence in another, which in turn induced
a more general, meaningless, silence in a third, until it had spread
everywhere. Nothing in the world is more powerful than one of these
sudden strange silences—

—the house, dappled with misty light that fell softly through the small
new leaves, and then the mist rolling away across the water, and the
mountains, still white with snow appearing sharp and clear against the
blue sky, and blue wood smoke from the driftwood fire curling out of the
chimney; the sloping shingled woodshed on whose roof the dogwood
blossoms fell, the wood packed with beauty inside; the axe, the trowels,
the rake, the spade, the deep, cool well with its guardian figure, a
flotsam, a wooden sculpture of the sea, fixed above it; the old kettle,
the new kettle, the teapot, the coffee pot, the double boilers, the
saucepans, the cupboard. Geoffrey worked outside, longhand, as he liked
to do, and she sat typing at a desk by the window—for she would learn
to type, and transcribe all his manuscripts from the slanting script
with its queer familiar Greek e’s and odd t’s into neat clean pages—and
as she worked she would see a seal rise out of the water, peer round,
and sink soundlessly. Or a heron, that seemed made of cardboard and
string, would flap past heavily, to alight majestically on a rock and
stand there, tall and motionless. Kingfishers and swallows flitted past
the eaves or perched on their pier. Or a seagull would glide past
perched on a piece of floating driftwood, his head in his wing, rocking,
rocking with the motion of the sea . . . They would buy all their food,
just as Hugh said, from a store beyond the woods, and see nobody, save a
few fishermen, whose white boats in winter they would see pitching at
anchor in the bay. She would cook and clean and Geoffrey would chop the
wood and bring the water from the well. And they would work and work on
this book of Geoffrey’s, which would bring him world fame. But absurdly
they would not care about this; they would continue to live, in
simplicity and love, in their home between the forest and the sea. And
at half-tide they would look down from their pier and see, in the
shallow lucid water, turquoise and vermilion and purple starfish, and
small brown velvet crabs sidling among barnacled stones brocaded like
heart-shaped pincushions. While at week-ends, out on the inlet, every
little while, ferryboats would pass, ferrying song upstream—

The spectators sighed with relief, there was a leafy rustling among
them, something, Yvonne couldn’t see what, had been accomplished down
below. Voices began to buzz, the air to tingle once more with
suggestions, eloquent insults, repartee.

The bull was clambering to its feet with its rider, a fat tousle-headed
Mexican, who seemed rather impatient and irritated with the whole
business. The bull too looked irritated and now stood quite still.

A string band in the grandstand opposite struck up Guadalajara out of
tune. Guadalajara, Guadalajara, half the band was singing . . .

“Guadalajara,” Hugh slowly pronounced each syllable.

Down up, down down up, down down up, banged the guitars, while the rider
glowered at them, then, with a furious look, took a firmer grip of the
rope round the bull’s neck, jerked it, and for a moment the animal
actually did what was apparently expected of it, convulsing itself
violently, like a rocking machine, and giving little leaps into the air
with all four feet. But presently it relapsed into its old, cruising
gait. Ceasing to participate altogether, it was no longer difficult to
ride, and after one ponderous circuit of the arena, headed straight back
for its pen which, opened by the pressure of the crowd on the fences,
it’d doubtless been secretly longing for all the time, trotting back
into it with suddenly positive, twinkling innocent hooves.

Everyone laughed as at a poor joke: it was laughter keyed to and
somewhat increased by a further misfortune, the premature appearance of
another bull, who, driven at a near gallop from the open pen by the
cruel thrusts and pokes and blows intended to arrest him, on reaching
the ring stumbled, and fell headlong into the dust.

The first bull’s rider, glum and discredited, had dismounted in the pen:
and it was difficult not to feel sorry for him too, as he stood by the
fence scratching his head, explaining his failure to one of the boys
standing, marvellously balanced, on the top railing—

—and perhaps even this month, if there had been a late Indian summer,
she would stand on their porch looking down over Geoffrey’s work, over
his shoulder into the water and see an archipelago, islands of
opalescent foam and branches of dead bracken—yet beautiful,
beautiful—and the reflected alder trees, almost bare now, casting their
sparse shadows over the brocaded stones like pincushions, over which the
brocaded crabs scuttled among a few drowned leaves—

The second bull made two feeble attempts to get up, and lay down again;
a lone horseman galloped across the ring swinging a rope and shouting at
it in a husky tone: “Booa, shooa, booa”—other charros appeared with
more ropes; the little dog came scampering up from nowhere, scuttling
about in circles; but it did no good. Nothing definite happened and
nothing seemed likely to budge the second bull who was roped casually
where it lay.

Everybody became resigned to another long wait, another long silence,
while below, and with a bad conscience, they half-heartedly set about
rigging the second bull.

“See the old unhappy bull,” the Consul was saying, “in the plaza
beautiful. Do you mind if I have a very small drink, darling, a poquitín
. . . No? Thank you. Waiting with a wild surmise for the ropes that
tantalise—”

—and gold leaves too, on the surface, and scarlet, one green, waltzing
downstream with her cigarette, while a fierce autumn sun glared up from
beneath the stones—

“Or waiting with seven—why not?—wild surmises, for the rope which
tantalises. Stout Cortez ought to come into the next bit, gazing at the
horrific, who was the least pacific of all men . . . Silent on a peak in
Quauhnahuac. Christ, what a disgusting performance—”

“Isn’t it?” Yvonne said, and turning away thought she saw standing
opposite below the band, the man in dark glasses who’d been outside the
Bella Vista this morning and then later—or had she imagined
it?—standing up beside Cortez Palace. “Geoffrey, who’s that man?”

“Strange about the bull,” the Consul said. “He’s so elusive.—There’s
your enemy, but he doesn’t want to play ball to-day. He lies down . . .
Or just falls down; see, he’s quite forgotten he’s your enemy now, so
_you_ think, and pat him . . . Actually . . . Next time you meet him you
might not recognize him as an enemy at all.”

“Es ist velleicht an ox,” Hugh muttered.

“An oxymoron . . . Wisely foolish.”

The animal lay supine as before, but momentarily abandoned. People were
huddled down below in argumentative groups. Horsemen also arguing
continued to whoop about the ring. Yet there was no definite action,
still less any indication that such was forthcoming. Who was going to
ride the second bull? seemed the main question in the air. But then what
of the first bull, who was raising Cain in the pen and was even with
difficulty being restrained from taking the field again. Meanwhile the
remarks around her echoed the contention in the arena. The first rider
hadn’t been given a fair chance, verdad? No hombre, he shouldn’t even
have been given that chance. No hombre, he should be given another.
Imposseebly, another rider was scheduled. Vero, he wasn’t present, or
couldn’t come, or was present but wasn’t going to ride, or wasn’t
present but was trying hard to get here, verdad?—still, that didn’t
change the arrangement or give the first rider his opportunity to try
again.

Drunks were as anxious as ever to deputise; one was mounted on the bull
now, pretending to ride it already, though it hadn’t moved a fraction.
He was dissuaded by the first rider, who looked very sulky: just in
time: at that moment the bull woke up and rolled over.

The first rider was on the point now, in spite of all comments, of
trying again when—no; he had been too bitterly insulted, and wasn’t
going to ride on any account. He walked away over toward the fence, to
do some more explaining to the boy still balanced on top.

A man down below wearing an enormous sombrero had shouted for silence
and paddling his arms was addressing them from the ring. They were being
appealed to, either for their continued patience, or for a rider to
volunteer.

Yvonne never found out which. For something extraordinary had happened,
something ridiculous, yet with earth-shattering abruptness—

It was Hugh. Leaving his coat behind he had jumped from the scaffolding
into the arena and was now running in the direction of the bull from
which, perhaps in jest, or because they mistook him for the scheduled
rider, the ropes were being whipped as by magic. Yvonne stood up: the
Consul came to his feet beside her.

“Good Christ, the bloody fool!”

The second bull, not indifferent as might have been supposed to the
removal of the ropes, and perplexed by the confused uproar that greeted
his rider’s arrival, had clambered up bellowing; Hugh was astride him
and already cake-walking crazily in the middle of the ring.

“Goddamn the stupid ass!” the Consul said.

Hugh was holding the rigging tightly with one hand and beating the
brute’s flanks with the other, and doing this with an expertness Yvonne
was astonished to find she was still almost competent to judge. Yvonne
and the Consul sat down again.

The bull jumped to the left, then to the right with both forelegs
simultaneously, as though they were strung together. Then it sank to its
knees. It clambered up, angry; Yvonne was aware of the Consul beside her
drinking habanero and then of him corking the bottle.

“Christ . . . Jesus.”

“It’s all right, Geoff. Hugh knows what he’s doing.”

“The bloody fool . . .”

“Hugh’ll be all right.—Wherever he learnt it.”

“The pimp . . . the poxbox.”

It was true that the bull had really waked up and was doing its best to
unseat him. It pawed the earth, galvanised itself like a frog, even
crawled on its belly. Hugh held on fast. The spectators laughed and
cheered, though Hugh, really indistinguishable from a Mexican now,
looked serious, even grim. He leaned back, holding on determinedly, with
feet splayed, heels knocking the sweaty flanks. The charros galloped
across the arena.

“I don’t think he means to show off,” Yvonne smiled. No, he was simply
submitting to that absurd necessity he felt for action, so wildly
exacerbated by the dawdling inhuman day. All his thoughts now were
bringing that miserable bull to its knees. “This is the way you like to
play? This is the way I like to play. You don’t like the bull for some
reason? Very well, I don’t like the bull either.” She felt these
sentiments helping to smite Hugh’s mind rigid with concentration upon
the defeat of the bull. And somehow one had little anxiety watching him.
One trusted him implicitly in this situation, just as one trusted in a
trick diver, a tightrope walker, a steeplejack. One felt, even, half
ironically, that this was the kind of thing Hugh might be best fitted to
do and Yvonne was surprised to recall her instant’s panic this morning
when he had jumped on the parapet of the bridge over the barranca.

“The risk . . . the fool,” the Consul said, drinking habanero.

Hugh’s troubles, in fact, were only beginning. The charros, the man in
the sombrero, the child who’d bitten the first bull’s tail, the serape
and rag hombres, even the little dog who came sneaking in again under
the fence, were all closing in to increase them; all had their part.

Yvonne was abruptly aware that there were black clouds climbing the sky
from the northeast, a temporary ominous darkness that lent a sense of
evening, thunder sounded in the mountains, a single grumble, metallic,
and a gust of wind raced through the trees, bending them: the scene
itself possessed a remote strange beauty; the white trousers and bright
serapes of the men enticing the bull shining against the dark trees and
lowering sky, the horses, transformed instantly into clouds of dust by
their riders with their scorpion-tailed whips, who leaned far out of
their bucket saddles to throw wildly, ropes anywhere, everywhere, Hugh’s
impossible yet somehow splendid performance in the midst of it all, the
boy, whose hair was blowing madly over his face, high up in the tree.

The band struck up Guadalajara again in the wind, and the bull bellowed,
his horns caught in the railings through which, helpless, he was being
poked with sticks in what remained of his testicles, tickled with
switches, a machete, and, after getting clear and re-entangled, a garden
rake; dust too and dung were thrown in his red eyes; and now there
seemed no end to this childish cruelty.

“Darling,” Yvonne whispered suddenly, “Geoffrey—look at me. Listen to
me. I’ve been . . . there isn’t anything to keep us here any longer
. . . Geoffrey . . .”

The Consul, pale, without his dark glasses, was looking at her
piteously; he was sweating, his whole frame was trembling. “No,” he
said. “No . . . _No_,” he added, almost hysterically.

“Geoffrey darling . . . don’t tremble . . . what are you afraid of? Why
don’t we go away, now, to-morrow, to-day . . . what’s to stop us?”

“No . . .”

“Ah, how good you’ve been—”

The Consul put his arm around her shoulders, leaning his damp head
against her hair like a child, and for a moment it was as if a spirit of
intercession and tenderness hovered over them, guarding, watching. He
said wearily:

“Why not. Let’s for Jesus Christ’s sweet sake get away. A thousand, a
million miles away, Yvonne, anywhere, so long as it’s away. Just away.
Away from all this. Christ, from this.”

—into a wild sky full of stars at rising, and Venus and the golden moon
at sunrise, and at noon blue mountains with snow and blue cold rough
water—“Do you _mean_ it?”

“Do I mean it!”

“Darling . . .” It ran in Yvonne’s mind that all at once they were
talking—agreeing hastily—like prisoners who do not have much time to
talk: the Consul took her hand. They sat closely, hands clasped, with
their shoulders touching. In the arena Hugh tugged; the bull tugged, was
free, but furious now, throwing himself at any place on the fence that
reminded him of the pen he’d so prematurely left, and now, tired,
persecuted beyond measure, finding it, hurling himself at the gate time
after time with an incensed, regressive bitterness until, the little dog
barking at his heels, he’d lost it again . . . Hugh rode the tiring bull
round and round the ring.

“This isn’t just escaping, I mean, let’s start again _really_, Geoffrey,
really and cleanly somewhere. It could be like a rebirth.”

“Yes. Yes it could.”

“I think I know, I’ve got it all clear in my mind at last. Oh Geoffrey,
at last I think I have.”

“Yes, I think I know too.”

Below them, the bull’s horns again involved the fence.

“Darling . . .” They would arrive at their destination by train, a train
that wandered through an evening land of fields beside water, an arm of
the Pacific—

“Yvonne?”

“Yes, darling?”

“I’ve fallen down, you know . . . Somewhat.”

“Never mind, darling.”

“. . . Yvonne?”

“Yes?”

“I love you . . . Yvonne?”

“Oh, I love you too!”

“My dear one . . . My sweetheart.”

“Oh Geoffrey. We _could_ be happy, we _could_—”

“Yes . . . We could.”

—and far across the water, the little house, waiting—

There was a sudden roar of applause followed by the accelerated clangour
of guitars deploying downwind; the bull had pulled away from the fence
and once more the scene was becoming animated: Hugh and the bull tussled
for a moment in the centre of a small fixed circle the others created by
their exclusion from it within the arena; then the whole was veiled in
dust; the pen gate to their left had broken open again, freeing all the
other bulls, including the first one, who was probably responsible; they
were charging out amid cheers, snorting, scattering in every direction.

Hugh was eclipsed for a while, wrestling with his bull in a far corner:
suddenly someone on that side screamed. Yvonne pulled herself from the
Consul and stood up.

“Hugh . . . Something’s happened.”

The Consul stood up unsteadily. He was drinking from the habanero
bottle, drinking, till he almost finished it. Then he said:

“I can’t see. But I think it’s the bull.”

It was still impossible to make out what was happening on the far side
in the dusty confusion of horsemen, bulls and ropes. Then Yvonne saw yes
it was the bull, which, played out, was lying in the dust again. Hugh
calmly walked off it, bowed to the cheering spectators and, dodging
other bulls, vaulted over the distant fence. Someone restored his hat to
him.

“Geoffrey—” Yvonne began hurriedly, “I don’t expect you to—I mean—I
know it’s going to be—”

But the Consul was finishing the habanero. He left a little for Hugh,
however.

. . . The sky was blue again overhead as they went down into Tomalín;
dark clouds still gathered behind Popocatepetl, their purple masses shot
through with the bright late sunlight, that fell too on another little
silver lake glittering cool, fresh, and inviting before them, Yvonne had
neither seen on the way, nor remembered.

“The Bishop of Tasmania,” the Consul was saying, “or somebody dying of
thirst in the Tasmanian desert, had a similar experience. The distant
prospect of Cradle Mountain had consoled him a while, and then he saw
this water . . . Unfortunately it turned out to be sunlight blazing on
myriads of broken bottles.”

The lake was a broken greenhouse roof belonging to El Jardín
Xicotancatl: only weeds lived in the greenhouse.

But their house was in her mind now as she walked: their home was real:
Yvonne saw it at sunrise, in the long afternoons of southwest winds, and
at nightfall she saw it in starlight and moonlight, covered with snow:
she saw it from above, in the forest, with the chimney and the roof
below her, and the foreshortened pier: she saw it from the beach rising
above her, and she saw it, tiny, in the distance, a haven and a beacon
against the trees, from the sea. It was only that the little boat of
their conversation had been moored precariously; she could hear it
banging against the rocks; later she would drag it up further, where it
was safe.—Why was it though, that right in the centre of her brain,
there should be a figure of a woman having hysterics, jerking like a
puppet and banging her fists upon the ground?

“Forward to the Salón Ofélia,” cried the Consul.

A hot thundery wind launched itself at them, spent itself, and somewhere
a bell beat out wild tripthongs.

Their shadows crawled before them in the dust, slid down white thirsty
walls of houses, were caught violently for a moment in an elliptical
shade, the turning wrenched wheel of a boy’s bicycle.

The spoked shadow of the wheel, enormous, insolent, swept away.

Now their own shadows fell full across the square to the raised twin
doors of the tavern, Todos Contentos y Yo También: under the doors they
noticed what looked like the bottom of a crutch, someone leaving. The
crutch didn’t move; its owner was having an argument at the door, a last
drink perhaps. Then it disappeared: one door of the cantina was propped
back, something emerged.

Bent double, groaning with the weight, an old lame Indian was carrying
on his back, by means of a strap looped over his forehead, another poor
Indian, yet older and more decrepit than himself. He carried the older
man and his crutches, trembling in every limb under this weight of the
past, he carried both their burdens.

They all stood watching the Indian as he disappeared with the old man
round a bend of the road, into the evening, shuffling through the grey
white dust in his poor sandals . . .




                                   X


“MESCAL,” the Consul said, almost absentmindedly. What had he said?
Never mind. Nothing less than mescal would do. But it mustn’t be a
serious mescal, he persuaded himself. “No, Señor Cervantes,” he
whispered, “mescal, poquito.”

Nevertheless, the Consul thought, it was not merely that he shouldn’t
have, not merely that, no, it was more as if he had lost or missed
something, or rather, not precisely lost, not necessarily missed.—It
was as if, more, he were waiting for something, and then again, not
waiting.—It was as if, almost, he stood (instead of upon the threshold
of the Salón Ofélia, gazing at the calm pool where Yvonne and Hugh were
about to swim) once more upon that black open station platform, with the
cornflowers and meadowsweet growing on the far side, where after
drinking all night he had gone to meet Lee Maitland returning from
Virginia at 7:40 in the morning, gone, light-headed, light-footed, and
in that state of being where Baudelaire’s angel indeed wakes, desiring
to meet trains perhaps, but to meet no trains that stop, for in the
angel’s mind are no trains that stop, and from such trains none
descends, not even another angel, not even a fair-haired one, like Lee
Maitland.—Was the train late? Why was he pacing the platform? Was it
the second or third train from Suspension Bridge—_Suspension!_—the
Station Master had said would be her train? What had the porter said?
Could she be on this train? Who was she? It was impossible that Lee
Maitland could be on any such train. And besides, all these trains were
expresses. The railway lines went into the far distance uphill. A lone
bird flapped across the lines far away. To the right of the
level-crossing, at a little distance, stood a tree like a green
exploding sea-mine, frozen. The dehydrated onion factory by the sidings
awoke, then the coal companies. _It’s a black business but we use you
white: Daemon’s Coal_ . . . A delicious smell of onion soup in
sidestreets of Vavin impregnated the early morning. Grimed sweeps at
hand trundled barrows, or were screening coal. Rows of dead lamps like
erect snakes poised to strike along the platform. On the other side were
cornflowers, dandelions, a garbage-can like a brazier blazing furiously
all by itself among meadowsweet. The morning grew hot. And now, one
after one, the terrible trains appeared on top of the raised horizon,
shimmering now, in mirage: first the distant wail, then, the frightful
spouting and spindling of black smoke, a sourceless towering pillar,
motionless, then a round hull, as if not on the lines, as if going the
other way, or as if stopping, as if not stopping, or as if slipping away
over the fields, as if stopping; oh God, not stopping; downhill:
_clipperty-one_ clipperty-one: _clipperty-two_ clipperty-two:
_clipperty-three_ clipperty-three: _clipperty-four clipperty-four_:
alas, thank God, not stopping, and the lines shaking, the station
flying, the coal dust, black bituminous: _lickety-cut lickety-cut
lickety-cut_: and then another train, _clipperty-one clipperty-one_,
coming in the other direction, swaying, whizzing, two feet above the
lines, flying, _clipperty-two_, with one light burning against the
morning, _clipperty-three_ clipperty-three, a single useless strange
eye, red-gold: trains, trains, trains, each driven by a banshee playing
a shrieking nose-organ in D Minor; _lickety-cut lickety-cut
lickety-cut_. But not his train; and not her train. Still, the train
would come doubtless—had the Station Master said the third or fourth
train from which way? Which was north, west? And, anyhow, whose north,
whose west? . . . And he must pick flowers to greet the angel, the fair
Virginian descending from the train. But the embankment flowers would
not pick, spurting sap, sticky, the flowers were on the wrong end of the
stalks (and he on the wrong side of the tracks), he nearly fell into the
brazier, the cornflowers grew in the middle of their stalks, the stalks
of meadowsweet—or was it queen’s lace?—were too long, his bouquet was
a failure. And how to get back across the tracks—here was a train now
coming in the wrong direction again, _clipperty-one_ clipperty-one, the
lines unreal, not there, walking on air; or rails that did lead
somewhere, to unreal life, or, perhaps, Hamilton, Ontario.—Fool, he was
trying to walk along a single line, like a boy on the curb:
_clipperty-two_ clipperty-two: _clipperty-three_ clipperty-three:
_clipperty-four clipperty-four_: _clipperty-five clipperty-five_:
_clipperty-six clipperty-six_: _clipperty-seven_;
clipperty-seven—trains, trains, trains, trains, converging upon him
from all sides of the horizon, each wailing for its demon lover. Life
had no time to waste. Why, then, should it waste so much of everything
else? With the dead cornflowers before him, at evening—the next
moment—the Consul sat in the station tavern with a man who’d just tried
to sell him three loose teeth. Was it to-morrow he was supposed to meet
the train? What had the Station Master said? Had that been Lee Maitland
herself waving at him frantically from the express? And who had flung
the soiled bundle of tissue papers out of the window? What had he lost?
Why was that idiot sitting there, in a dirty grey suit, and trousers
baggy at the knees, with one bicycle clip, in his long, long baggy grey
jacket, and grey cloth cap, and brown boots, with his thick fleshy grey
face, from which three upper teeth, perhaps the _very_ three teeth, were
missing, all on one side, and thick neck, saying, every few minutes to
anyone who came in: “I’m watching you.” “I can see you . . .” “You won’t
escape me.”—“If you only kept quiet, Claus, no one’d know you were
crazy.” . . . That was the time too, in the storm country, when “the
lightning is peeling the poles, Mr. Firmin, and biting the wires,
sir—you can taste it afterwards too, in the water, pure sulphur,”—that
at four o’clock each afternoon, preceded, out of the adjacent cemetery,
by the gravedigger—sweating, heavy-footed, bowed, long-jawed and
trembling, and carrying his special tools of death—he would come to
this same tavern to meet Mr. Quattras, the Negro bookie from Codrington,
in the Barbados. “I’m a race-track man and I was brought up with whites,
so the blacks don’t like me.” Mr. Quattras, grinning and sad, feared
deportation . . . But that battle against death had been won. And he had
saved Mr. Quattras. That very night, had it been?—with a heart like a
cold brazier standing by a railway platform among meadowsweet wet with
dew: they are beautiful and terrifying, these shadows of cars that sweep
down fences, and sweep zebra-like across the grass path in the avenue of
dark oaks under the moon: a single shadow, like an umbrella on rails,
travelling down a picket fence; portents of doom, of the heart failing
. . . Gone. Eaten up in reverse by night. And the moon gone. _C’etait
pendant l’horreur d’une profonde nuit._ And the deserted cemetery in the
starlight, forsaken by the gravedigger, drunk now, wandering home across
the fields—“I can dig a grave in three hours if they’ll let me,”—the
cemetery in the dappled moonlight of a single street lamp, the deep
thick grass, the towering obelisk lost in the Milky Way. Jull, it said
on the monument. What had the Station Master said? The dead. Do they
sleep? Why should they, when we cannot. _Mais tout dort, et l’armée, et
les vents, et Neptune._ And he had placed the poor ragged cornflowers
reverently on a neglected grave . . . That was Oakville.—But Oaxaca or
Oakville, what difference? Or between a tavern that opened at four
o’clock in the afternoon, and one that opened (save on holidays) at four
o’clock in the morning? . . . “_I ain’t telling you the word of a lie
but once I had a whole vault dug up for $100 and sent to Cleveland!_”

A corpse will be transported by express . . .

Oozing alcohol from every pore, the Consul stood at the open door of the
Salón Ofélia. How sensible to have had a mescal. How sensible! For it
was the right, the sole drink to have under the circumstances. Moreover
he had not only proved to himself he was not afraid of it, he was now
fully awake, fully sober again, and well able to cope with anything that
might come his way. But for this slight continual twitching and hopping
within his field of vision, as of innumerable sand fleas, he might have
told himself he hadn’t had a drink for months. The only thing wrong with
him, he was too hot.

A natural waterfall crashing down into a sort of reservoir built on two
levels—he found the sight less cooling than grotesquely suggestive of
some agonised ultimate sweat; the lower level made a pool where Hugh and
Yvonne were still not yet swimming. The water on the turbulent upper
level raced over an artificial falls beyond which, becoming a swift
stream, it wound through thick jungle to spill down a much larger
natural cascada out of sight. After that it dispersed, he recalled, lost
its identity, dribbled, at various places, into the barranca. A path
followed the stream through the jungle and at one place another path
branched off to the right which went to Parián: and the Farolito. Though
the first path led you to rich cantina country too. God knows why. Once,
perhaps, in hacienda days, Tomalín had held some irrigational
importance. Then, after the burning of the sugar plantations, schemes,
cleavable and lustrous, evolved for a spa, were abandoned sulphurously.
Later, vague dreams of hydro-electric power hovered in the air, though
nothing had been done about them. Parián was an even greater mystery.
Originally settled by a scattering of those fierce forbears of Cervantes
who had succeeded in making Mexico great even in her betrayal, the
traitorous Tlaxcalans, the nominal capital of the state had been quite
eclipsed by Quauhnahuac since the revolution, and while still an obscure
administrative centre, no one had ever adequately explained its
continued existence to him. One met people going there; few, now he
thought about it, ever coming back. Of course they’d come back, he had
himself: there was an explanation. But why didn’t a bus run there, or
only grudgingly, and by a strange route? The Consul started.

Near him lurked some hooded photographers. They were waiting by their
tattered machines for the bathers to leave their boxes. Now two girls
were squealing as they came down to the water in their ancient, hired
costumes. Their escorts swaggered along a grey parapet dividing the pool
from the rapids above, obviously deciding not to dive in, pointing for
excuse up at a ladderless springboard, derelict, like some forgotten
victim of tidal catastrophe, in a weeping pepper tree. After a time they
rushed howling down a concrete incline into the pool. The girls bridled,
but waded in after, tittering. Nervous gusts agitated the surface of the
baths. Magenta clouds piled higher against the horizon, though overhead
the sky remained clear.

Hugh and Yvonne appeared, grotesquely costumed. They stood laughing on
the brink of the pool—shivering, though the horizontal rays of the sun
lay on them all with solid heat.

The photographers took photographs.

“Why,” Yvonne called out, “this is like the Horseshoe Falls in Wales.”

“Or Niagara,” observed the Consul, “circa 1900. What about a trip on the
Maid of the Mist, seventy-five cents with oilskins.”

Hugh turned round gingerly, hands on knees.

“Yeah. To where the rainbow ends.”

“The Cave of the Winds. The Cascada Sagrada.”

There were, in fact, rainbows. Though without them the mescal (which
Yvonne couldn’t of course have noticed) would have already invested the
place with a magic. The magic was of Niagara Falls itself, not its
elemental majesty, the honeymoon town; in a sweet, tawdry, even
hoydenish sense of love that haunted this nostalgic spray-blown spot.
But now the mescal struck a discord, then a succession of plaintive
discords to which the drifting mists all seemed to be dancing, through
the elusive subtleties of ribboned light, among the detached shreds of
rainbows floating. It was a phantom dance of souls, baffled by these
deceptive blends, yet still seeking permanence in the midst of what was
only perpetually evanescent, or eternally lost. Or it was a dance of the
seeker and his goal, here pursuing still the gay colours he did not know
he had assumed, there striving to identify the finer scene of which he
might never realise he was already a part . . .

Dark coils of shadows lay in the deserted barroom. They sprang at him.
“Otro mescalito. Un poquito.” The voice seemed to come from above the
counter where two wild yellow eyes pierced the gloom. The scarlet comb,
the wattles, then the bronze green metallic feathers of some fowl
standing on the bar, materialised, and Cervantes, rising playfully from
behind it, greeted him with Tlaxcaltecan pleasure: “Muy fuerte. Muy
terreebly,” he cackled.

Was this the face that launched five hundred ships, and betrayed Christ
into being in the Western Hemisphere? But the bird appeared tame enough.
Half past tree by the cock, that other fellow had said. And here was the
cock. It was a fighting cock. Cervantes was training it for a fight in
Tlaxcala, but the Consul couldn’t be interested. Cervantes’ cockerels
always lost—he’d attended drunkenly one session in Cuautla; the vicious
little man-made battles, cruel and destructive, yet somehow bedraggledly
inconclusive, each brief as some hideously mismanaged act of
intercourse, disgusted and bored him. Cervantes took the cock away. “Un
bruto,” he added.

The subdued roar of the falls filled the room like a ship’s engine . . .
Eternity . . . The Consul, cooler, leaned on the bar, staring into his
second glass of the colorless ether-smelling liquid. To drink or not to
drink.—But without mescal, he imagined, he had forgotten eternity,
forgotten their world’s voyage, that the earth was a ship, lashed by the
Horn’s tail, doomed never to make her Valparaiso. Or that it was like a
golf ball, launched at Hercules’ Butterfly, wildly hooked by a giant out
of an asylum window in hell. Or that it was a bus, making its erratic
journey to Tomalín and nothing. Or that it was like—whatever it would
be shortly, after the next mescal.

Still, there had not yet been a “next” mescal. The Consul stood, his
hand as if part of the glass, listening, remembering . . . Suddenly he
heard, above the roar, the clear sweet voices of the young Mexicans
outside: the voice of Yvonne too, clear, intolerable—and different,
after the first mescal—shortly to be lost.

Why lost? . . . The voices were as if confused now with the blinding
torrent of sunlight which poured across the open doorway, turning the
scarlet flowers along the path into flaming swords. Even almost bad
poetry is better than life, the muddle of voices might have been saying,
as, now, he drank half his drink.

The Consul was aware of another roaring, though it came from inside his
head: _clipperty-one_: the American Express, swaying, bears the corpse
through the green meadows. What is man but a little soul holding up a
corpse? The soul! Ah, and did she not too have her savage and traitorous
Tlaxcalans, her Cortez and her noches tristes, and, sitting within her
innermost citadel in chains, drinking chocolate, her pale Moctezuma?

The roaring rose, died away, rose again; guitar chords mingled with the
shouting of many voices, calling, chanting, like native women in
Kashmir, pleading, above the noise of the maelstrom: “Borrrrraaacho,”
they wailed. And the dark room with its flashing doorway rocked under
his feet.

“—what do you think, Yvonne, if sometime we climb that baby, Popo I
mean—”

“Good heavens why! Haven’t you had enough exercise for one—”

“—might be a good idea to harden your muscles first, try a few small
peaks.”

They were joking. But the Consul was not joking. His second mescal had
become serious. He left it still unfinished on the counter, Señor
Cervantes was beckoning from a far corner.

A shabby little man with a black shade over one eye, wearing a black
coat, but a beautiful sombrero with long gay tassels down the back, he
seemed, however savage at heart, in almost as highly nervous a state as
himself. What magnetism drew these quaking ruined creatures into his
orbit? Cervantes led the way behind the bar, ascended two steps, and
pulled a curtain aside. Poor lonely fellow, he wanted to show him round
his house again. The Consul made the steps with difficulty. One small
room occupied by a huge brass bedstead. Rusty rifles in a rack on the
wall. In one corner, before a tiny porcelain Virgin, burned a little
lamp. Really a sacramental candle, it diffused a ruby shimmer through
its glass into the room, and cast a broad yellow flickering cone on the
ceiling: the wick was burning low. “Mistair,” Cervantes tremulously
pointed to it. “Señor. My grandfather tell me never to let her go out.”
Mescal tears came to the Consul’s eyes, and he remembered sometime
during last night’s debauch going with Dr. Vigil to a church in
Quauhnahuac he didn’t know, with sombre tapestries, and strange votive
pictures, a compassionate Virgin floating in the gloom, to whom he
prayed, with muddily beating heart, he might have Yvonne again. Dark
figures, tragic and isolated, stood about the church, or were
kneeling—only the bereaved and lonely went there. “She is the Virgin
for those who have nobody with,” the doctor told him, inclining his head
toward the image. “And for mariners on the sea.” Then he knelt in the
dirt and placing his pistol—for Dr. Vigil always went armed to Red
Cross Balls—on the floor beside him, said sadly, “Nobody come here,
only those who have nobody them with.” Now the Consul made this Virgin
the other who had answered his prayer and as they stood in silence
before her, prayed again. “Nothing is altered and in spite of God’s
mercy I am still alone. Though my suffering seems senseless I am still
in agony. There is no explanation of my life.” Indeed there was not, nor
was this what he’d meant to convey. “Please let Yvonne have her
dream—dream?—of a new life with me—please let me believe that all
that is not an abominable self-deception,” he tried . . . “Please let me
make her happy, deliver me from this dreadful tyranny of self. I have
sunk low. Let me sink lower still, that I may know the truth. Teach me
to love again, to love life.” That wouldn’t do either . . . “Where is
love? Let me truly suffer. Give me back my purity, the knowledge of the
Mysteries, that I have betrayed and lost.—Let me be truly lonely, that
I may honestly pray. Let us be happy again somewhere, if it’s only
together, if it’s only out of this terrible world. Destroy the world!”
he cried in his heart. The Virgin’s eyes were turned down in
benediction, but perhaps she hadn’t heard.—The Consul had scarcely
noticed that Cervantes had picked up one of the rifles. “I love
hunting.” After replacing it he opened the bottom drawer of a wardrobe
which was squeezed in another corner. The drawer was chock full of
books, including the History of Tlaxcala, in ten volumes. He shut it
immediately. “I am an insignificant man, and I do not read these books
to prove my insignificance,” he said proudly. “Sí, hombre,” he went on,
as they descended to the bar again, “as I told you, I obey my
grandfather. He tell me to marry my wife. So I call my wife my mother.”
He produced a photograph of a child lying in a coffin and laid it on the
counter. “I drank all day.”

“—snow goggles and an alpenstock. You’d look awfully nice with—”

“—and my face all covered with grease. And a woolen cap pulled right
down over my eyes—”

Hugh’s voice came again, then Yvonne’s, they were dressing, and
conversing loudly over the tops of their bathing boxes, not six feet
away, beyond the wall:

“—hungry now, aren’t you?”

“—a couple of raisins and half a prune!”

“—not forgetting the limes—”

The Consul finished his mescal: all a pathetic joke, of course, still,
this plan to climb Popo, if just the kind of thing Hugh would have found
out about before arriving, while neglecting so much else: yet could it
be that the notion of climbing the volcano had somehow struck them as
having the significance of a lifetime together? Yes, there it rose up
before them, with all its hidden dangers, pitfalls, ambiguities,
deceptions, portentous as what they could imagine for the poor brief
self-deceived space of a cigarette was their own destiny—or was Yvonne
simply, alas, happy?

“—where is it we start from, Amecameca—”

“To prevent mountain sickness.”

“—though quite a pilgrimage at that, I gather! Geoff and I thought of
doing it, years ago. You go on horseback first, to Tlamancas—”

“—at midnight, at the Hotel Fausto!”

“What would you all prefer? Cawliflowers or pootootsies,” the Consul,
innocent, drinkless in a booth, greeted them, frowning; the supper at
Emmaeus, he felt, trying to disguise his distant mescal voice as he
studied the bill of fare provided him by Cervantes. “Or extramapee
syrup. Onans in garlic soup on egg . . .

“Pep with milk? Or what about a nice Filete de Huachinango rebozado
tartar con German friends?”

Cervantes had handed Yvonne and Hugh each a menu but they were sharing
hers: “Dr. Moise von Schmidthaus’ special soup,” Yvonne pronounced the
words with gusto.

“I think a pepped petroot would be about my mark,” said the Consul,
“after those onans.”

“Just one,” the Consul went on, anxious, since Hugh was laughing so
loudly, for Cervantes’ feelings, “but please note the German friends.
They even get into the filet.”

“What about the tartar?” Hugh inquired.

“Tlaxcala!” Cervantes, smiling, debated between them with trembling
pencil. “Sí, I am Tlaxcaltecan . . . You like eggs, señora. Stepped on
eggs. Muy sabrosos. Divorced eggs? For fish, sliced of filet with peas.
Vol-au-vent à la reine. Somersaults for the queen. Or you like poxy
eggs, poxy in toast. Or veal liver tavernman? Pimesan chike chup? Or
spectral chicken of the house? Youn’ pigeon. Red snappers with a fried
tartar, you like?”

“Ha, the ubiquitous tartar,” Hugh exclaimed.

“I think the spectral chicken of the house would be even more terrific,
don’t you?” Yvonne was laughing, the foregoing bawdry mostly over her
head however, the Consul felt, and still she hadn’t noticed anything.

“Probably served in its own ectoplasm.”

“Sí, you like sea-sleeves in his ink? Or tunny fish? Or an exquisite
mole? Maybe you like fashion melon to start? Fig mermelade? Brambleberry
con crappe Gran Duc? Omele he sourpusse, you like? You like to drink
first a gin fish? Nice gin fish? Silver fish? Sparkenwein?”

“Madre?” the Consul asked, “What’s this madre here?—You like to eat
your mother, Yvonne?”

“Badre, señor. Fish también. Yautepec fish. Muy sabroso. You like?”

“What about it, Hugh—do you want to wait for the fish that dies?”

“I’d like a beer.”

“Cerveza, sí. Moctezuma? Dos Equis? Carta Blanca?”

At last they all decided on clam chowder, scrambled eggs, the spectral
chicken of the house, beans, and beer. The Consul at first had ordered
only shrimps and a hamburger sandwich but yielded to Yvonne’s: “Darling,
won’t you eat more than that, I could eat a youn’ horse,” and their
hands met across the table.

And then, for the second time that day, their eyes, in a long look, a
long look of longing. Behind her eyes, beyond her, the Consul, an
instant, saw Granada, and the train waltzing from Algeciras over the
plains of Andalusia, _chufferty pupperty_, _chufferty pupperty_, the low
dusty road from the station past the old bull ring and the Hollywood bar
and into the town, past the British Consulate and the convent of Los
Angeles up past the Washington Irving Hotel (You can’t escape me, I can
see you, England must return again to New England for her values!), the
old number seven train running there: evening, and the stately horse
cabs clamber up through the gardens slowly, plod through the arches,
mounting past where the eternal beggar is playing on a guitar with three
strings, through the gardens, gardens, gardens everywhere, up, up, to
the marvellous traceries of the Alhambra (which bored him) past the well
where they had met, to the América Pensión; and up, up, now they were
climbing themselves, up to the Generalife Gardens, and now from the
Generalife Gardens to the Moorish tomb on the extreme summit of the
hill; here they plighted their troth . . .

The Consul dropped his eyes at last. How many bottles since then? In how
many glasses, how many bottles had he hidden himself, since then alone?
Suddenly he saw them, the bottles of aguardiente, of anís, of jerez, of
Highland Queen, the glasses, a babel of glasses—towering, like the
smoke from the train that day—built to the sky, then falling, the
glasses toppling and crashing, falling downhill from the Generalife
Gardens, the bottles breaking, bottles of Oporto, tinto, blanco, bottles
of Pernod, Oxygènée, absinthe, bottles smashing, bottles cast aside,
falling with a thud on the ground in parks, under benches, beds, cinema
seats, hidden in drawers at Consulates, bottles of Calvados dropped and
broken, or bursting into smithereens, tossed into garbage heaps, flung
into the sea, the Mediterranean, the Caspian, the Caribbean, bottles
floating in the ocean, dead Scotchmen on the Atlantic highlands—and now
he saw them, smelt them, all, from the very beginning—bottles, bottles,
bottles, and glasses, glasses, glasses, of bitter, of Dubonnet, of
Falstaff, Rye, Johnny Walker, Vieux Whiskey blanc Canadien, the
apéritifs, the digestifs, the demis, the dobles, the noch ein Herr
Obers, the et glas Araks, the tusen taks, the bottles, the bottles, the
beautiful bottles of tequila, and the gourds, gourds, gourds, the
millions of gourds of beautiful mescal . . . The Consul sat very still.
His conscience sounded muffled with the roar of water. It whacked and
whined round the wooden frame house with the spasmodic breeze, massed,
with the thunderclouds over the trees, seen through the windows, its
factions. How indeed could he hope to find himself, to begin again when,
somewhere, perhaps, in one of those lost or broken bottles, in one of
those glasses, lay, forever, the solitary clue to his identity? How
could he go back and look now, scrabble among the broken glass, under
the eternal bars, under the oceans?

Stop! Look! Listen! How drunk, or how drunkly sober undrunk, can you
calculate you are _now_, at any rate? There had been those drinks at
Señora Gregorio’s, no more than two certainly. And before? Ah, before!
But later, in the bus, he’d only had that sip of Hugh’s habanero, then,
at the bullthrowing, almost finished it. It was this that made him tight
again, but tight in a way he didn’t like, in a worse way than in the
square even, the tightness of impending unconsciousness, of seasickness,
and it was from this sort of tightness—was it?—he’d tried to sober up
by taking those mescalitos on the sly. But the mescal, the Consul
realized, had succeeded in a manner somewhat outside his calculations.
The strange truth was, he had another hangover. There was something in
fact almost beautiful about the frightful extremity of that condition
the Consul now found himself in. It was a hangover like a great dark
ocean swell finally rolled up against a foundering steamer, by countless
gales to windward that have long since blown themselves out. And from
all this it was not so much necessary to sober up again, as once more to
wake, yes, as to wake, so much as to—

“Do you remember this morning, Yvonne, when we were crossing the river,
there was a pulquería on the other side, called La Sepultura or
something, and there was an Indian sitting with his back against the
wall, with his hat over his face, and his horse tethered to a tree, and
there was a number seven branded on the horse’s hipbone—”

“—saddlebags—”

. . . Cave of the Winds, seat of all great decisions, little Cythère of
childhood, eternal library, sanctuary bought for a penny or nothing,
where else could man absorb and divest himself of so much at the same
time? The Consul was awake all right, but he was not, at the moment
apparently, having dinner with the others, though their voices came
plainly enough. The toilet was all of grey stone, and looked like a
tomb—even the seat was cold stone. “It is what I deserve . . . It is
what I am,” thought the Consul. “Cervantes,” he called, and Cervantes,
surprisingly, appeared, half round the corner—there was no door to the
stone tomb—with the fighting cock, pretending to struggle, under his
arm, chuckling:

“—Tlaxcala!”

“—or perhaps it was on his rump—”

After a moment, comprehending the Consul’s plight, Cervantes advised:

“A stone, hombre, I bring you a stone.”

“Cervantes!”

“—_branded_—”

“. . . clean yourself on a stone, señor.”

—The meal had started well too, he remembered now, a minute or so
since, despite everything, and: “Dangerous Clam Magoo,” he had remarked
at the onset of the chowder. “And our poor spoiling brains and eggs at
home!” had he not commiserated, at the apparition, swimming in exquisite
mole, of the spectral chicken of the house? They had been discussing the
man by the roadside and the thief in the bus, then: “Excusado.” And
this, this grey final Consulate, this Franklin Island of the soul, was
the excusado. Set apart from the bathing places, convenient yet hidden
from view, it was doubtless a purely Tlaxcaltecan fantasy, Cervantes’
own work, built to remind him of some cold mountain village in a mist.
The Consul sat, fully dressed however, not moving a muscle. Why was he
here? Why was he always more or less, here? He would have been glad of a
mirror, to ask himself that question. But there was no mirror. Nothing
but stone. Perhaps there was no time either, in this stone retreat.
Perhaps this was the eternity that he’d been making so much fuss about,
eternity already, of the Svidrigailov variety, only instead of a bath
house in the country full of spiders, here it turned out to be a stone
monastic cell wherein sat—strange!—who but himself?

“—Pulquería—”

“—and then there was this Indian—”

                  SEAT OF THE HISTORY OF THE CONQUEST
                            VISIT TLAXCALA!

read the Consul. (And how was it that, beside him, was standing a
lemonade bottle half full of mescal, how had he obtained it so quickly,
or Cervantes, repenting, thank God, of the stone, together with the
tourist folder, to which was affixed a railway and bus timetable,
brought it—or had he purchased it before, and if so, when?)

                         ¡VISITE VD. TLAXCALA!

    Sus Monumentos, Sitios Históricos y De Bellezas Naturales. Lugar
    De Descanso, El Mejor Clima. El Aire Más Puro. El Cielo Más
    Azul.

             ¡TLAXCALA! SEDE DE LA HISTORIA DE LA CONQUISTA

“—this morning, Yvonne, when we were crossing the river there was this
pulquería on the other side—”

“. . . La Sepultura?”

“—Indian sitting with his back against the wall—”

                          GEOGRAPHIC SITUATION

    The State is located between 19° 06′ 10″ and 19° 44′ 00″ North
    latitude and between 0° 23′ 38″ and 1° 30′ 34″ Eastern longitude
    from Mexico’s meridian. Being its boundaries to the North-West
    and South with Puebla State, to the West with Mexico State and
    to the North-West with Hidalgo State. Its territorial extension
    is of 4.132 square kilometres. Its population is about 220,000
    inhibitants, giving a density of 53 inhibitants to the square
    kilometre. It is situated in a valley surrounded by mountains,
    among them are those called Matlalcueyatl and Ixtaccihuatl.

“—Surely you remember, Yvonne, there was this pulquería—”

“—What a glorious morning it was!—”

                                CLIMATE

    Intertropical and proper of highlands, regular and healthy. The
    malarial sickness is unknown.

“—well, Geoff said he was a Spaniard, for one thing—”

“—but what difference—”

“So that the man beside the road may be an Indian, of course,” the
Consul suddenly called from his stone retreat, though it was strange,
nobody seemed to have heard him. “And why an Indian? So that the
incident may have some social significance to him, so that it should
appear a kind of latter-day repercussion of the Conquest, and a
repercussion of the Conquest, if you please, so that that may in turn
seem a repercussion of—”

“—crossing the river, a windmill—”

“Cervantes!”

“A stone . . . You want a stone, señor?”

                              HYDROGRAPHY

    Zahuapan River—Streaming from Atoyac river and bordering the
    City of Tlaxcala, it supplies a great quantity of power to
    several factories; among the lagoons, the Acuitlapilco is the
    most notable and is lying two kilometres South from Tlaxcala
    City . . . Plenty of web-footed fowl is found in the first
    lagoon.

“—Geoff said the pub he came out of was a fascist joint. The El Amor de
los Amores. What I gathered was he used to be the owner of it, though I
think he’s come down in the world and he just works there now . . . Have
another bottle of beer?”

“Why not? Let’s do.”

“What if this man by the roadside had been a fascist and your Spaniard a
communist?”—In his stone retreat the Consul took a sip of
mescal.—“Never mind, I think your thief is a fascist, though of some
ignominious sort, probably a spy on other spies or—”

“The way I feel, Hugh, I thought he must be just some poor man riding
from market who’d taken too much pulque, and fell off his horse, and was
being taken care of, but then we arrived, and he was robbed . . . Though
do you know, I didn’t notice a thing . . . I’m ashamed of myself.”

“Move his hat further down though, so he can get some air.”

“—outside La Sepultura.”

                            CITY OF TLAXCALA

    The Capital of the State, said to be like Granada, _the Capital
    of the State, said to be like Granada, said to be like Granada,
    Granada, the Capital of the State said to be like Granada_, is
    of a pleasant appearances, straight streets, archaic buildings,
    neat fine climate, efficient public electric light, and up to
    date Hotel for tourists. It has a beautiful Central Park named
    “Francisco I Madero” covered by stricken in years trees,
    ash-trees being the majority, a garden clothed by many beautiful
    flowers; seats all over, _four clean, seats all over_, four
    clean and well-arranged lateral avenues. During the days the
    birds are singing melodiously among the foliage of the trees.
    Its whole gives a sight of emotional majesty, _emotional
    majesty_ without losing the tranquillity and rest appearance.
    The Zahuapan River causeway with an extension of 200 metres
    long, has on both sides corpulent ash-trees along the river, in
    some parts there are built ramparts, giving the impression of
    dikes, in the middle part of the causeway is a wood where there
    are found “Senadores” (pic-nic-eaters) in order to make easier
    the rest days to walkers. From this causeway one can admire the
    suggestive sceneries showing the Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl.

“—or he didn’t pay for his pulque at the El Amor de los Amores and the
pubkeeper’s brother followed him and claimed the reckoning. I see the
extraordinary likelihood of that.”

“. . . What _is_ the Ejidal, Hugh?”

“—a bank that advances money to finance collective effort in the
villages . . . These messengers have a dangerous job. I have that friend
in Oaxaca . . . Sometimes they travel disguised as, well, peons . . .
From something Geoff said . . . Putting two and two together . . . I
thought the poor man might have been a bank messenger . . . But he was
the same chap we saw this morning, at any rate, it was the same horse,
do you remember if it had any saddlebags on it, when we saw it?”

“That is, I think I saw it . . . It had when I think I saw it.”

“—Why, I think there’s a bank like that in Quauhnahuac, Hugh, just by
Cortez Palace.”

“—lots of people who don’t like the Credit Banks and don’t like
Cárdenas either, as you know, or have any use for his agrarian reform
laws—”

                         SAN FRANCISCO CONVENT

    Within the city limits of Tlaxcala is one of the oldest churches
    of the New World. This place was the residence of the first
    Apostolical See, named “Carolence” in honor of the Spanish King
    Carlos V, being the first Bishop Don Fray Julián Garcés, on the
    year 1526. In said Convent, according to tradition, were
    baptised the four Senators of the Tlaxcaltecan Republic,
    existing still on the right side of the Church the Baptismal
    Font, being their God-Fathers the conqueror Hernán Cortés and
    several of his Captains. The main entrance of the Convent offers
    a magnificent series of arches and in the inside there is a
    secret passage, _secret passage_. On the right side of the
    entrance is erected a majestic tower, which is rated as the only
    one through America. The Convent’s altars are of a
    churrigueresque (overloaded) style and they are decorated with
    paintings drew by the most celebrated Artists, such as Cabrera,
    Echave, Juaréz, etc. In the chapel of the right side there is
    still the famous pulpit from where was preached in the New
    World, for first time, the Gospel. The ceiling of the Convent’s
    Church shows magnificent carved cedar panels and decorations
    forming golden stars. The ceiling is the only one in the whole
    Spanish America.

“—in spite of what I’ve been working on and my friend Weber, and what
Geoff said about the Unión Militar, I still don’t think the fascists
have any hold here to speak of.”

“Oh Hugh, for heaven’s sake—”

                            THE CITY PARISH

    The church is erected in the same place where the Spaniards
    built the first Hermitage consecrated to Virgin Mary. Some of
    the altars are decorated with overloaded art work. The portico
    of the church is of beautiful and severe appearance.

“_Ha ha ha!_”

“_Ha ha ha!_”

“I am very sorry you cannot come me with.”

“For she is the Virgin for those who have nobody with.”

“Nobody come here, only those who have nobody them with.”

“—who have nobody with—”

“—who have nobody them with—”

                         TLAXCALA ROYAL CHAPEL

    Opposite to Francisco I Madero Park could be seen the ruins of
    the Royal Chapel, where the Tlaxcaltecan Senators, for first
    time, prayed to the Conqueror’s God. It has been left only the
    portico, showing the Pope’s shield, as well as those of the
    Mexican Pontificate and King Carlos V. History relates that the
    construction of the Royal Chapel was built at a cost amounting
    to $200,000.00—

“A Nazi may not be a fascist, but there’re certainly plenty of them
around, Yvonne. Beekeepers, miners, chemists. And keepers of pubs. The
pubs themselves of course make ideal headquarters. In the Pilsener
Kindl, for instance, in Mexico City—”

“Not to mention in Parián, Hugh,” said the Consul, sipping mescal,
though nobody seemed to have heard him save a hummingbird, who at this
moment snored into his stone retreat, whirred, jittering, in the
entrance and bounced out almost into the face of the godson of the
Conqueror himself, Cervantes, who came gliding past again, carrying his
fighting cock. “In the Farolito—”

                     SANTUARIO OCOTLÁN IN TLAXCALA

    It is a Sanctuary whose white and embellished steeples 38.7
    meters high, of an overloading style, gives an imposing and
    majestic impression. The frontage trimmed with sacred
    Archangels, St. Francis and the epithet of Virgin Mary statues.
    Its construcción is made out of carved work in perfect
    dimensions decorated with allegorical symbols and flowers. It
    was constructed on the colonial epoch. Its central altar is of
    an overloaded and embellished style. The most admirable is the
    vestry, arched, decorated with graceful carved works, prevailing
    the green, red, and golden colours. In the highest part inside
    of the cúpula are carved the twelve apostles. The whole is of a
    singular beauty, not found in any church of the Republic.

“—I don’t agree with you, Hugh. We go back a few years—”

“—forgetting, of course, the Miztecs, the Toltecs, Quetzelcoatl—”

“—not necessarily—”

“—oh yes you do! And you say first, Spaniard exploits Indian, then,
when he had children, he exploited the halfbreed, then the pure-blooded
Mexican Spaniard, the criollo, then the mestizo exploits everybody,
foreigners, Indians, and all. Then the Germans and Americans exploited
him: now the final chapter, the exploitation of everybody by everybody
else—”

               _Historic Places_—SAN BUENAVENTURA ATEMPAM

    In this town was built and tried in a dike the ships used for
    the conquerors in the attack to Tenochtitlán the great capital
    of the Moctezuma’s Empire.

“_Mar Cantábrico._”

“All right, I heard you, the Conquest took place in an organised
community in which naturally there was exploitation already.”

“Well—”

“. . . no, the point is, Yvonne, that the Conquest took place in a
civilisation which was as good if not better than that of the
conquerors, a deep-rooted structure. The people weren’t all savages or
nomadic tribes, footloose and wandering—”

“—suggesting that had they been footloose and wandering there would
never have been any exploitation?”

“Have another bottle of beer . . . Carta Blanca?”

“Moctezuma . . . Dos Equis.”

“Or is it Montezuma?”

“Moctezuma on the bottle.”

“That’s all he is now—”

                                TIZATLÁN

    In this town, very near to Tlaxcala City, are still erected the
    ruins of the Palace, residence of Senator Xicohtencatl, father
    of the warrior by the same name. In said ruins could be still
    appreciated the stone blocks where were offered the sacrifices
    to their Gods . . . In the same town, a long time ago, were the
    headquarters of the Tlaxcaltecan warriors . . .

“I’m watching you . . . You can’t escape me.”

“—this is not just escaping. I mean, let’s start again, really and
cleanly.”

“I think I know the place.”

“I can see you.”

“—where are the letters, Geoffrey Firmin, the letters she wrote till
her heart broke—”

“But in Newcastle, Delaware, now that’s another thing again!”

“—the letters you not only have never answered you didn’t you did you
didn’t you did then where is your reply—”

“—but oh my God, this city—the noise! the chaos! If I could only get
out! If I only knew where you could get to!”

                               OCOTELULCO

    In this town near Tlaxcala existed, long back, the Maxixcatzin
    Palace. In that place, according to tradition took place the
    baptism of the first Christian Indian.

“It will be like a rebirth.”

“I’m thinking of becoming a Mexican subject, of going to live among the
Indians, like William Blackstone.”

“Napoleon’s leg twitched.”

“—might have run over you, there must be something wrong, what? No,
going to—”

“Guanajuato—the streets—how can you resist the names of the
streets—the Street of Kisses—”

                             MATLALCUEYATL

    This mountain are still the ruins of the shrine dedicated to the
    God of Waters, Tlaloc, which vestiges are almost lost,
    therefore, are no longer visited by tourists, and it is referred
    that on this place, young Xicohtencatl harangued his soldiers,
    telling them to fight the conquerors to the limit, dying if
    necessary.

“. . . no pasarán.”

“Madrid.”

“They plugged ’em too. They shoot first and ask questions later.”

“I can see you.”

“I’m watching you.”

“You can’t escape me.”

“Guzmán . . . Erikson 43.”

“A corpse will be transported by—”

                        RAILROAD AND BUS SERVICE
                           (MEXICO—TLAXCALA)

Lines                              MEXICO     TLAXCALA               Rates
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Mexico-Vera Cruz Railroad           Lv   7:30  Ar  18:50  Ar  12:00  $7.50
Mexico-Puebla Railroad              Lv  16:05  Ar  11:05  Ar  20:00   7.75
Transfer in Santa Ana Chiautempan in both ways.
Buses Flecha Roja. Leaving every hour from 5 to 19 hours.
Pullmans Estrella de Oro leaving every hour from 7 to 22.
Transfer in San Martín Texmelucán in both ways.
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

. . . And now, once more, their eyes met across the table. But this time
there was, as it were, a mist between them, and through the mist the
Consul seemed to see not Granada but Tlaxcala. It was a white beautiful
cathedral city toward which the Consul’s soul yearned and which indeed
in many respects was like Granada; only it appeared to him, just as in
the photographs in the folder, perfectly empty. That was the queerest
thing about it, and at the same time the most beautiful; there was
nobody there, no one—and in this it also somewhat resembled Tortu—to
interfere with the business of drinking, not even Yvonne, who, so far as
she was in evidence at all, was drinking with him. The white sanctuary
of the church in Ocotlán, of an overloaded style, rose up before them:
white towers with a white clock and no one there. While the clock itself
was timeless. They walked, carrying white bottles, twirling walk canes
and ash plants, in the neat fine better climate, the purer air, among
the corpulent ash-trees, the stricken in years trees, through the
deserted park. They walked, happy as toads in a thunderstorm, arm-in-arm
down the four clean and well-arranged lateral avenues. They stood, drunk
as larks, in the deserted convent of San Francisco before the empty
chapel where was preached, for the first time in the New World, the
Gospel. At night they slept in cold white sheets among the white bottles
at the Hotel Tlaxcala. And in the town too were innumerable white
cantinas, where one could drink forever on credit, with the door open
and the wind blowing. “We could go straight there,” he was saying,
“straight to Tlaxcala. Or we could all spend the night in Santa Ana
Chiautempan, transferring in both ways of course, and go to Vera Cruz in
the morning. Of course that means going—” he looked at his watch
“—straight back now . . . We could catch the next bus . . . We’ll have
time for a few drinks,” he added consularly.

The mist had cleared, but Yvonne’s eyes were full of tears, and she was
pale.

Something was wrong, was very wrong. For one thing both Hugh and Yvonne
seemed quite surprisingly tight.

“What’s that, don’t you want to go back now, to Tlaxcala,” said the
Consul, perhaps too thickly.

“That’s not it, Geoffrey.”

Fortunately, Cervantes arrived at this moment with a saucer full of live
shellfish and toothpicks. The Consul drank some beer that had been
waiting for him. The drink situation was now this, was this: there had
been one drink waiting for him and this drink of beer he had not yet
quite drunk. On the other hand there had been until recently several
drinks of mescal (why not?—the word did not intimidate him, eh?)
waiting for him outside in a lemonade bottle and all these he both had
and had not drunk: had drunk in fact, had not drunk so far as the others
were concerned. And before that there had been two mescals that he both
should and should not have drunk. Did they suspect? He had adjured
Cervantes to silence; had the Tlaxcaltecan, unable to resist it,
betrayed him? What had they really been talking about while he was
outside? The Consul glanced up from his shellfish at Hugh; Hugh, like
Yvonne, as well as quite tight, appeared angry and hurt. What were they
up to? The Consul had not been away very long (he thought), no more than
seven minutes all told, had reappeared washed and combed—who knows
how?—his chicken was scarcely cold, while the others were only just
finishing theirs . . . Et tu Bruto! The Consul could feel his glance at
Hugh becoming a cold look of hatred. Keeping his eyes fixed gimlet-like
upon him he saw him as he had appeared that morning, smiling, the razor
edge keen in sunlight. But now he was advancing as if to decapitate him.
Then the vision darkened and Hugh was still advancing, but not upon him.
Instead, back in the ring, he was bearing down upon an ox: now he had
exchanged his razor for a sword. He thrust forward the sword to bring
the ox to its knees . . . The Consul was fighting off an all but
irresistible, senseless onrush of wild rage. Trembling, he felt, from
nothing but this effort—the constructive effort too, for which no one
would give him credit, to change the subject—he impaled one of the
shellfish on a toothpick and held it up, almost hissing through his
teeth:

“Now you see what sort of creatures we are, Hugh. Eating things alive.
That’s what we do. How can you have much respect for mankind, or any
belief in the social struggle?”

Despite this, Hugh was apparently saying, remotely, calmly, after a
while: “I once saw a Russian film about a revolt of some fishermen . . .
A shark was netted with a shoal of other fish and killed . . . This
struck me as a pretty good symbol of the Nazi system which, even though
dead, continues to go on swallowing live struggling men and women!”

“It would do just as well for any other system . . . Including the
communist system.”

“See here, Geoffrey—”

“See here, old bean,” the Consul heard himself saying, “to have against
you Franco, or Hitler, is one thing, but to have Actinium, Argon,
Beryllium, Dysprosium, Niobium, Palladium, Praseodymium—”

“Look here, Geoff—”

“—Ruthenium, Samarium, Silicon, Tantalum, Tellurium, Terbium,
Thorium—”

“See here—”

“—Thulium, Titanium, Uranium, Vanadium, Virginium, Xenon, Ytterbium,
Yttrium, Zirconium, to say nothing of Europium and Germanium—ahip!—and
Columbium!—against you, and all the others, is another.” The Consul
finished his beer.

Thunder suddenly sprang again outside with a clap and bang, slithering.

Despite which Hugh seemed to be saying, calmly, remotely, “See here,
Geoffrey. Let’s get this straight once and for all. Communism to me is
not, essentially, whatever its present phase, a system at all. It is
simply a new spirit, something which one day may or may not seem as
natural as the air we breathe. I seem to have heard that phrase before.
What I have to say isn’t original either. In fact were I to say it five
years from now it would probably be downright banal. But to the best of
my knowledge, no one has yet called in Matthew Arnold to the support of
their argument. So I am going to quote Matthew Arnold for you, partly
because you don’t think I am capable of quoting Matthew Arnold. But
that’s where you’re quite wrong. My notion of what we call—”

“Cervantes!”

“—is a spirit in the modern world playing a part analogous to that of
Christianity in the old. Matthew Arnold says, in his essay on Marcus
Aurelius—”

“Cervantes, por Christ sake—”

“‘Far from this, the Christianity which those emperors aimed at
repressing was, in their conception of it, something philosophically
contemptible, politically subversive, and morally abominable. As men
they sincerely regarded it much as well-conditioned people, with us,
regard Mormonism: as rulers, they regarded it much as liberal statesmen,
with us, regard the Jesuits. A kind of Mormonism—’”

“—”

“‘—constituted as a vast secret society, with obscure aims of political
and social subversion, was what Antonius Pius—’”

“_Cervantes!_”

“‘The inner and moving cause of the representation lay, no doubt, in
this, that Christianity was a new spirit in the Roman world, destined to
act in that world as its dissolvent; and it was inevitable that
Christianity—’”

“Cervantes,” the Consul interrupted, “you are Oaxaqueñan?”

“No, señor. I am Tlaxcalan, Tlaxcala.”

“You are,” said the Consul. “Well, hombre, and are there not stricken in
years trees in Tlaxcala?”

“Sí, Sí, hombre. Stricken in years trees. Many trees.”

“And Ocotlán. Santuario de Ocotlán. Is not that in Tlaxcala?”

“Sí, sí, Señor, sí, Santuario de Ocotlán,” said Cervantes, moving back
toward the counter.

“And Matlalcueyatl.”

“Sí, hombre. Matlalcuayatl . . . Tlaxcala.”

“And lagoons?”

“Sí . . . many lagoons.”

“And are there not many web-footed fowl in these lagoons?”

“Sí, señor. Muy fuerte . . . in Tlaxcala.”

“Well then,” said the Consul, turning round on the others, “what’s wrong
with my plan? What’s wrong with all you people? Aren’t you going to Vera
Cruz after all, Hugh?”

Suddenly a man started to play the guitar in the doorway angrily, and
once again Cervantes came forward: “Black Flowers is the name of that
song.” Cervantes was about to beckon the man to come in. “It say:—I
suffer, because your lips say only lies and they have death in a kiss.”

“Tell him to go away,” the Consul said. “Hugh—cuántos trenes hay el día
para Vera Cruz?”

The guitar player changed his tune:

“This is a farmer’s song,” said Cervantes, “for oxen.”

“Oxen, we’ve had enough oxen for one day. Tell him to go far away, por
favor,” said the Consul. “My God, what’s wrong with you people? Yvonne,
Hugh . . . It’s a perfectly good idea, a most practical idea. Don’t you
see it’ll kill two birds with one stone—a stone, Cervantes! . . .
Tlaxcala is on the way to Vera Cruz, Hugh, the true cross . . . This is
the last time we’ll be seeing you, old fellow. For all I know . . . We
could have a celebration. Come on now, you can’t lie to me, I’m watching
you . . . Change at San Martín Texmelucán in both ways . . .”

Thunder, single, exploded in midair just outside the door and Cervantes
came hurrying forward with the coffee: he struck matches for their
cigarettes: “La superstición dice,” he smiled, striking a fresh one for
the Consul, “que cuando tres amigos prenden su cigarro con la misma
cerilla, el último muere antes que los otros dos.”

“You have that superstition in Mexico?” Hugh asked.

“Sí, señor,” Cervantes nodded, “the fantasy is that when three friends
take fire with the same match, the last die before the other two. But in
war it is impossible because many soldiers have only one match.”

“Feurstick,” said Hugh, shielding yet another light for the Consul. “The
Norwegians have a better name for matches.”

—It was growing darker, the guitar player, it seemed, was sitting in
the corner, wearing dark glasses, they had missed this bus back, if
they’d meant to take it, the bus that was going to take them home to
Tlaxcala, but it seemed to the Consul that, over the coffee, he had, all
at once, begun to talk soberly, brilliantly, and fluently again, that he
was, indeed, in top form, a fact he was sure was making Yvonne, opposite
him, happy once more. Feurstick, Hugh’s Norwegian word, was still in his
head. And the Consul was talking about the Indo-Aryans, the Iranians and
the sacred fire, Agni, called down from heaven, with his firesticks, by
the priest. He was talking of soma, Amrita, the nectar of immortality,
praised in one whole book of the Rig Veda—_bhang_, which was, perhaps,
much the same thing as mescal itself, and, changing the subject here,
delicately, he was talking of Norwegian architecture, or rather how much
architecture, in Kashmir, was almost, so to speak, Norwegian, the
Hamadan mosque for instance, wooden, with its tall tapering spires, and
ornaments pendulous from the eaves. He was talking of the Borda gardens
in Quauhnahuac, opposite Bustamente’s cinema, and how much they, for
some reason, always reminded him of the terrace of the Nishat Bagh. The
Consul was talking about the Vedic Gods, who were not properly
anthropomorphised, whereas Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl . . . Or were
they not? In any event the Consul, once more, was talking about the
sacred fire, the sacrificial fire, of the stone soma press, the
sacrifices of cakes and oxen and horses, the priest chanting from the
Veda, how the drinking rites, simple at first, became more and more
complicated as time went on, the ritual having to be carried out with
meticulous care, since one slip—_tee hee!_—would render the sacrifice
invalid. Soma, bhang, mescal, ah yes, mescal, he was back upon that
subject again, and now from it, had departed almost as cunningly as
before. He was talking of the immolation of wives, and the fact that, at
the time he was referring to, in Taxila, at the mouth of the Khyber
Pass, the widow of a childless man might contract a Levirate marriage
with her brother-in-law. The Consul found himself claiming to see an
obscure relation, apart from any purely verbal one, between Taxila and
Tlaxcala itself: for when that great pupil of
Aristotle’s—Yvonne—Alexander, arrived in Taxila, had he not
Cortez-like already been in communication with Ambhi, Taxila’s king, who
likewise had seen in an alliance with a foreign conqueror, an excellent
chance of undoing a rival, in this case not Moctezuma but the Paurave
monarch, who ruled the country between the Jhelma and the Chenab?
Tlaxcala . . . The Consul was talking, like Sir Thomas Browne, of
Archimedes, Moses, Achilles, Methuselah, Charles V and Pontius Pilate.
The Consul was talking furthermore of Jesus Christ, or rather of Yus
Asaf who, according to the Kashmiri legend, _was_ Christ—Christ, who
had, after being taken down from the cross, wandered to Kashmir in
search of the lost tribes of Israel, and died there, in Srinagar—

But there was a slight mistake. The Consul was not talking. Apparently
not. The Consul had not uttered a single word. It was all an illusion, a
whirling cerebral chaos, out of which, at last, at long last, at this
very instant, emerged, rounded and complete, order:

“The act of a madman or a drunkard, old bean,” he said, “or of a man
labouring under violent excitement seems less free and more inevitable
to the one who knows the mental condition of the man who performed the
action, and more free and less inevitable to the one who does not know
it.”

It was like a piece on a piano, it was like that little bit in seven
flats, on the black keys—it was what, more or less, he now remembered,
he’d gone to the excusado in the first place in _order_ to remember, to
bring off pat—it was perhaps also like Hugh’s quotation from Matthew
Arnold on Marcus Aurelius, like that little piece one had learned, so
laboriously, years ago, only to forget whenever one particularly wanted
to play it, until one day one got drunk in such a way that one’s fingers
themselves recalled the combination and, miraculously, perfectly,
unlocked the wealth of melody; only here Tolstoy had supplied no melody.

“What?” Hugh said.

“Not at all. I always come back to the point, and take a thing up where
it has been left off. How else should I have maintained myself so long
as Consul? When we have absolutely no understanding of the causes of an
action—I am referring, in case your mind has wandered to the subject of
your own conversation, to the events of the afternoon—the causes,
whether vicious or virtuous or what not, we ascribe, according to
Tolstoy, a greater element of free will to it. According to Tolstoy
then, we should have had less reluctance in interfering than we did
. . .

“‘All cases without exception in which our conception of free will and
necessity varies depend on three considerations’,” the Consul said. “You
can’t get away from it.

“Moreover, according to Tolstoy,” he went on, “before we pass judgment
on the thief—if thief he were—we would have to ask ourselves: what
were his connections with other thieves, ties of family, his place in
time, if we know even that, his relation to the external world, and to
the consequences leading to the act . . . Cervantes!”

“Of course we’re taking time to find out all this while the poor fellow
just goes on dying in the road,” Hugh was saying. “How did we get onto
this? No one had an opportunity to interfere till after the deed was
done. None of us saw him steal the money, to the best of my knowledge.
Which crime are you talking about anyway, Geoff? If other crime there
were . . . And the fact that we did nothing to stop the thief is surely
beside the point that we did nothing really to save the man’s life.”

“Precisely,” said the Consul. “I was talking about interference in
general, I think. Why should we have done anything to save his life?
Hadn’t he a right to die, if he wanted to? . . . Cervantes—mescal—no,
parras, por favor . . . Why should anybody interfere with anybody? Why
should anybody have interfered with the Tlaxcalans, for example, who
were perfectly happy by their own stricken in years trees, among the
web-footed fowl in the first lagoon—”

“What web-footed fowl in what lagoon?”

“Or more specifically perhaps, Hugh, I was talking of nothing at all
. . . Since supposing we settled anything—ah, _ignoratio elenchi_,
Hugh, that’s what. Or the fallacy of supposing a point proved or
disproved by argument which proves or disproves something not at issue.
Like these wars. For it seems to me that almost everywhere in the world
these days there has long since ceased to be anything fundamental to man
at issue at all . . . Ah, you people with ideas!

“Ah, _ignoratio elenchi_! . . . All this, for instance, about going to
fight for Spain . . . and poor little defenceless China! Can’t you see
there’s a sort of determinism about the fate of nations? They all seem
to get what they deserve in the long run.”

“Well . . .”

A gust of wind moaned round the house with an eerie sound like a
northerner prowling among the tennis nets in England, jingling the
rings.

“Not exactly original.”

“Not long ago it was poor little defenceless Ethiopia. Before that, poor
little defenceless Flanders. To say nothing of course of the poor little
defenceless Belgian Congo. And to-morrow it will be poor little
defenceless Latvia. Or Finland. Or Piddledeedee. Or even Russia. Read
history. Go back a thousand years. What is the use of interfering with
its worthless stupid course? Like a barranca, a ravine, choked up with
refuse, that winds through the ages, and peters out in a—What in God’s
name has all the heroic resistance put up by poor little defenceless
peoples all rendered defenceless in the first place for some
well-calculated and criminal reason—”

“Hell, _I_ told you that—”

“—to do with the survival of the human spirit? Nothing whatsoever. Less
than nothing. Countries, civilisations, empires, great hordes, perish
for no reason at all, and their soul and meaning with them, that one old
man perhaps you never heard of, and who never heard of them, sitting
boiling in Timbuctoo, proving the existence of the mathematical
correlative of _ignoratio elenchi_ with obsolete instruments, may
survive.”

“For Christ sake,” said Hugh.

“Just go back to Tolstoy’s day—Yvonne, where are you going?”

“Out.”

“Then it was poor little defenceless Montenegro. Poor little defenceless
Serbia. Or back a little further still, Hugh, to your Shelley’s, when it
was poor little defenceless Greece—Cervantes!—As it will be again, of
course. Or to Boswell’s—poor little defenceless Corsica! Shades of
Paoli and Monboddo. Applesquires and fairies strong for freedom. As
always. And Rousseau—not douanier—knew he was talking nonsense—”

“I should like to know what the bloody hell it is you imagine you’re
talking!”

“Why can’t people mind their own damned business!”

“Or say what they mean?”

“It was something else, I grant you. The dishonest mass rationalisation
of _motive_, justification of the common pathological itch. Of the
motives for interference; merely a passion for fatality half the time.
Curiosity. Experience—very natural . . . But nothing constructive at
bottom, only acceptance really, a piddling contemptible acceptance of
the state of affairs that flatters one into feeling thus noble or
useful!”

“But my God it’s _against_ such a state of affairs that people like the
Loyalists—”

“But with calamity at the end of it! There must be calamity because
otherwise the people who did the interfering would have to come back and
cope with their responsibilities for a change—”

“Just let a real war come along and then see how blood-thirsty chaps
like you are!”

“Which would never do. Why all you people who talk about going to Spain
and fighting for freedom—Cervantes!—should learn by heart what Tolstoy
said about that kind of thing in _War and Peace_, that conversation with
the volunteers in the train—”

“But anyhow that was in—”

“Where the first volunteer, I mean, turned out to be a bragging
degenerate obviously convinced after he’d been drinking that he was
doing something heroic—what are you laughing at, Hugh?”

“It’s funny.”

“And the second was a man who had tried everything and been a failure in
all of them. And the third—” Yvonne abruptly returned and the Consul,
who had been shouting, slightly lowered his voice, “an artillery man,
was the only one who struck him at first favorably. Yet what did he turn
out to be? A cadet who’d failed in his examinations. All of them, you
see, misfits, all good for nothing, cowards, baboons, meek wolves,
parasites, every man jack of them, people afraid to face their own
responsibilities, fight their own fight, ready to go anywhere, as
Tolstoy well perceived—”

“Quitters?” Hugh said. “Didn’t Katamasov or whoever he was believe that
the action of those volunteers was nevertheless an expression of the
whole soul of the Russian people?—Mind you, I appreciate that a
diplomatic corps which merely remains in San Sebastian hoping Franco
will win quickly instead of returning to Madrid to tell the British
Government the truth of what’s really going on in Spain can’t possibly
consist of quitters!”

“Isn’t your desire to fight for Spain, for fiddledee, for Timbuctoo, for
China, for hypocrisy, for bugger all, for any hokery pokery that a few
moose-headed idiot sons choose to call freedom—of course there is
nothing of the sort, really—”

“If—”

“If you’ve really read _War and Peace_, as you claim you have, why
haven’t you the sense to profit by it, I repeat?”

“At any rate,” said Hugh, “I profited by it to the extent of being able
to distinguish it from _Anna Karenina_.”

“Well, _Anna Karenina_ then . . .” the Consul paused. “Cervantes!”—and
Cervantes appeared, with his fighting cock, evidently fast asleep, under
his arm. “Muy fuerte,” he said, “muy terreebly,” passing through the
room, “un bruto.”—“But as I implied, you bloody people, mark my words,
you don’t mind your own business any better at home, let alone in
foreign countries. Geoffrey darling, why don’t you stop drinking, it
isn’t too late—that sort of thing. Why isn’t it? Did I say so?” What
was he saying? The Consul listened to himself almost in surprise at this
sudden cruelty, this vulgarity. And in a moment it was going to get
worse. “I thought it was all so splendidly and legally settled that it
was. It’s only you that insists it isn’t.”

“Oh Geoffrey—”

—Was the Consul saying this? Must he say it?—It seemed he must. “For
all you know it’s only the knowledge that it most certainly is too late
that keeps me alive at all . . . You’re all the same, all of you,
Yvonne, Jacques, you, Hugh, trying to interfere with other people’s
lives, interfering, interfering—why should anyone have interfered with
young Cervantes here, for example, given him an interest in cock
fighting?—and that’s precisely what’s bringing about disaster in the
world, to stretch a point, yes, quite a point, all because you haven’t
got the wisdom and the simplicity and the courage, yes, the courage, to
take any of the, to take—”

“See here, Geoffrey—”

“What have you ever done for humanity, Hugh, with all your _oratio
obliqua_ about the capitalist system, except talk, and thrive on it,
until your soul stinks.”

“Shut up, Geoff, for the love of mike!”

“For that matter, both your souls stink! Cervantes!”

“Geoffrey, please sit down,” Yvonne seemed to have said wearily, “you’re
making such a scene.”

“No, I’m not, Yvonne. I’m talking very calmly. As when I ask you, what
have you ever done for anyone but yourself.” Must the Consul say this?
He was saying, had said it: “Where are the children I might have wanted?
You may suppose I might have wanted them. Drowned. To the accompaniment
of the rattling of a thousand douche bags. Mind you, _you_ don’t pretend
to love ‘humanity,’ not a bit of it! You don’t even need an illusion,
though you do have some illusions unfortunately, to help you deny the
only natural and good function you have. Though on second thoughts it
might be better if women had no functions at all!”

“Don’t be a bloody swine, Geoffrey.” Hugh rose.

“Stay where you bloody are,” ordered the Consul. “Of course I see the
romantic predicament you two are in. But even if Hugh makes the most of
it again it won’t be long, it won’t be long, before he realises he’s
only one of the hundred or so other ninneyhammers with gills like
codfish and veins like racehorses—prime as goats all of them, hot as
monkeys, salt as wolves in pride! No, one will be enough . . .”

A glass, fortunately empty, fell to the floor and was smashed.

“As if he plucked up kisses by the roots and then laid his leg over her
thigh and sighed. What an uncommon time you two must have had, paddling
palms and playing bubbies and titties all day under cover of saving me
. . . Jesus. Poor little defenceless me—I hadn’t thought of that. But,
you see, it’s perfectly logical, what it comes down to: I’ve got my own
piddling little fight for freedom on my hands. Mummy, let me go back to
the beautiful brothel! Back to where those triskeles are strumming, the
infinite trismus . . .

“True, I’ve been tempted to talk peace. I’ve been beguiled by your
offers of a sober and non-alcoholic Paradise. At least I suppose that’s
what you’ve been working around towards all day. But now I’ve made up my
melodramatic little mind, what’s left of it, just enough to make up.
Cervantes! That far from wanting it, thank you very much, on the
contrary, I choose—Tlax—” Where was he? “Tlax—Tlax—”

. . . It was as if, almost, he were standing upon that black open
station platform, where he had gone—_had_ he gone?—that day after
drinking all night to meet Lee Maitland returning from Virginia at 7:40
in the morning, gone, light-headed, light-footed, and in that state of
being where Baudelaire’s angel indeed wakes, desiring to meet trains
perhaps, but to meet no trains that stop, for in the angel’s mind are no
trains that stop, and from such trains no one descends, not even another
angel, nor even a fair-haired one, like Lee Maitland.—Was the train
late? Why was he pacing the platform? Was it the second or third train
from Suspension Bridge—Suspension!—“Tlax—” the Consul repeated. “I
choose—”

He was in a room, and suddenly in this room, matter was disjunct: a
doorknob was standing a little way out from the door. A curtain floated
in by itself, unfastened, unattached to anything. The idea struck him it
had come in to strangle him. An orderly little clock behind the bar
called him to his senses, its ticking very loud: _Tlax_: _tlax_: _tlax_:
_tlax_: . . . Half past five. Was that all? “Hell,” he finished
absurdly. “Because—” He produced a twenty-peso note and laid it on the
table.

“I like it,” he called to them, through the open window, from outside.
Cervantes stood behind the bar, with scared eyes, holding the cockerel.
“I love hell. I can’t wait to get back there. In fact I’m running, I’m
almost back there already.”

He was running too, in spite of his limp, calling back to them crazily,
and the queer thing was, he wasn’t quite serious, running toward the
forest, which was growing darker and darker, tumultuous above—a rush of
air swept out of it, and the weeping pepper tree roared.

He stopped after a while: all was calm. No one had come after him. Was
that good? Yes, it was good, he thought, his heart pounding. And since
it was so good he would take the path to Parián, to the Farolito.

Before him the volcanoes, precipitous, seemed to have drawn nearer. They
towered up over the jungle, into the lowering sky—massive interests
moving up in the background.




                                   XI


SUNSET. Eddies of green and orange birds scattered aloft with ever wider
circlings like rings on water. Two little pigs disappeared into the dust
at a gallop. A woman passed swiftly, balancing on her head, with the
grace of a Rebecca, a small light bottle . . .

Then, the Salón Ofélia at last behind them, there was no more dust. And
their path became straight, leading on through the roar of water past
the bathing place, where, reckless, a few late bathers lingered, toward
the forest.

Straight ahead, in the northeast, lay the volcanoes, the towering dark
clouds behind them steadily mounting the heavens.

—The storm, that had already dispatched its outriders, must have been
travelling in a circle: the real onset was yet to come. Meantime the
wind had dropped and it was lighter again, though the sun had gone down
at their back slightly to their left, in the southwest, where a red
blaze fanned out into the sky over their heads.

The Consul had not been in the Todos Contentos y Yo También. And now,
through the warm twilight, Yvonne was walking before Hugh, purposely too
fast for talking. Nonetheless his voice (as earlier that day the
Consul’s own) pursued her.

“You know perfectly well I won’t just run away and abandon him,” she
said.

“Christ Jesus, this never would have happened if I hadn’t been here!”

“Something else would probably have happened.”

The jungle closed over them and the volcanoes were blotted out. Yet it
was still not dark. From the stream racing along beside them a radiance
was cast. Big yellow flowers, resembling chrysanthemums, shining like
stars through the gloom, grew on either side of the water. Wild
bougainvillea, brick-red in the half-light, occasionally a bush with
white handbells, tongue-downwards, started out at them, every little
while a notice nailed to a tree, a whittled, weather-beaten arrow
pointing, with the words hardly visible: _a la Cascada_—

Further on worn-out ploughshares and the rusted and twisted chassis of
abandoned American cars bridged the stream which they kept always to
their left.

The sound of the falls behind was now lost in that of the cascade ahead.
The air was full of spray and moisture. But for the tumult one might
almost have heard things growing as the torrent rushed through the wet
heavy foliage that sprang up everywhere around them from the alluvial
soil.

All at once, above them, they saw the sky again. The clouds, no longer
red, had become a peculiar luminous blue-white, drifts and depths of
them, as though illumined by moon rather than sunlight, between which
roared still the deep fathomless cobalt of afternoon.

Birds were sailing up there, ascending higher and higher. Infernal bird
of Prometheus!

They were vultures, that on earth so jealously contend with one another,
defiling themselves with blood and filth, but who were yet capable of
rising, like this, above the storms, to heights shared only by the
condor, above the summit of the Andes—

Down the southwest stood the moon itself, preparing to follow the sun
below the horizon. On their left, through the trees beyond the stream
appeared low hills, like those at the foot of the Calle Nicaragua; they
were purple and sad. At their foot, so near Yvonne made out a faint
rustling, cattle moved on the sloping fields among gold cornstalks and
striped mysterious tents.

Before them, Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl continued to dominate the
northeast, the Sleeping Woman now perhaps the more beautiful of the two,
with jagged angles of blood red snow on its summit, fading as they
watched, whipped with darker rock shadows, the summit itself seeming
suspended in midair, floating among the curdling ever mounting black
clouds.

Chimborazo, Popocatepetl—so ran the poem the Consul liked—had stolen
his heart away! But in the tragic Indian legend Popocatepetl himself was
strangely the dreamer: the fires of his warrior’s love, never extinct in
the poet’s heart, burned eternally for Ixtaccihuatl, whom he had no
sooner found than lost, and whom he guarded in her endless sleep . . .

They had reached the limit of the clearing, where the path divided in
two. Yvonne hesitated. Pointing to the left, as it were straight on,
another aged arrow on a tree repeated: _a la Cascada_. But a similar
arrow on another tree pointed away from the stream down a path to their
right: _a Parián_.

Yvonne knew where she was now, but the two alternatives, the two paths,
stretched out before her on either side like the arms—the oddly
dislocated thought struck her—of a man being crucified.

If they chose the path to their right they would reach Parián much
sooner. On the other hand, the main path would bring them to the same
place finally, and, what was more to the point, past, she felt sure, at
least two other cantinas.

They chose the main path: the striped tents, the cornstalks dropped out
of sight, and the jungle returned, its damp earthy leguminous smell
rising about them with the night.

This path, she was thinking, after emerging on a sort of main highway
near a restaurant-cantina named the Rum-Popo or the El Popo, took, upon
resumption (if it could be called the same path), a short cut at right
angles through the forest to Parián, across to the Farolito itself, as
it might be the shadowy crossbar from which the man’s arms were hanging.

The noise of the approaching falls was now like the awakening voices
downwind of five thousand bobolinks in an Ohio savannah. Toward it the
torrent raced furiously, fed from above, where, down the left bank,
transformed abruptly into a great wall of vegetation, water was spouting
into the stream through thickets festooned with convolvuli on a higher
level than the topmost trees of the jungle. And it was as though one’s
spirit too were being swept on by the swift current with the uprooted
trees and smashed bushes in débâcle towards that final drop.

They came to the little cantina El Petate. It stood, at a short distance
from the clamourous falls, its lighted windows friendly against the
twilight, and was at present occupied, she saw as her heart leaped and
sank, leaped again, and sank, only by the barman and two Mexicans,
shepherds or quince farmers, deep in conversation, and leaning against
the bar.—Their mouths opened and shut soundlessly, their brown hands
traced patterns in the air, courteously.

The El Petate, which from where she stood resembled a sort of
complicated postage stamp, surcharged on its outside walls with its
inevitable advertisements for Moctezuma, Criollo, Cafeaspirina,
mentholatum—no se rasque las picaduras de los insectos!—was about all
remaining, the Consul and she’d once been told, of the formerly
prosperous village of Anochtitlán, which had burned, but which at one
time extended to the westward, on the other side of the stream.

In the smashing din she waited outside. Since leaving the Salón Ofélia
and up to this point, Yvonne had felt herself possessed of the most
complete detachment. But now, as Hugh joined the scene within the
cantina—he was asking the two Mexicans questions, describing Geoffrey’s
beard to the barman, he was describing Geoffrey’s beard to the Mexicans,
he was asking the barman questions, who, with two fingers had assumed,
jocosely, a beard—she became conscious she was laughing unnaturally to
herself; at the same time she felt, crazily, as if something within her
were smouldering, had taken fire, as if her whole being at any moment
were going to explode.

She started back. She had stumbled over a wooden structure close to the
Petate that seemed to spring at her. It was a wooden cage, she saw by
the light from the windows, in which crouched a large bird.

It was a small eagle she had startled, and which was now shivering in
the damp and dark of its prison. The cage was set between the cantina
and a low thick tree, really two trees embracing one another: an amate
and a sabino. The breeze blew spray in her face. The falls sounded. The
intertwined roots of the two tree lovers flowed over the ground towards
the stream, ecstatically seeking it, though they didn’t really need it;
the roots might as well have stayed where they were, for all around them
nature was outdoing itself in extravagant fructification. In the taller
trees beyond there was a cracking, a rebellious tearing, and a rattling,
as of cordage; boughs like booms swung darkly and stiffly about her,
broad leaves unfurled. There was a sense of black conspiracy, like ships
in harbour before a storm, among these trees, suddenly through which,
far up in the mountains, lightning flew, and the light in the cantina
flickered off, then on again, then off. No thunder followed. The storm
was a distance away once more. Yvonne waited in nervous apprehension:
the lights came on and Hugh—how like a man, oh God! but perhaps it was
her own fault for refusing to come in—was having a quick drink with the
Mexicans. There the bird was still, a long-winged dark furious shape, a
little world of fierce despairs and dreams, and memories of floating
high above Popocatepetl, mile on mile, to drop through the wilderness
and alight, watching, in the timberline ghosts of ravaged mountain
trees. With hurried quivering hands Yvonne began to unfasten the cage.
The bird fluttered out of it and alighted at her feet, hesitated, took
flight to the roof of El Petate, then abruptly flew off through the
dusk, not to the nearest tree, as might have been supposed, but up—she
was right, it knew it was free—up soaring, with a sudden cleaving of
pinions into the deep dark blue pure sky above, in which at that moment
appeared one star. No compunction touched Yvonne. She felt only an
inexplicable secret triumph and relief: no one would ever know she had
done this; and then, stealing over her, the sense of utter heartbreak
and loss.

Lamplight shone across the tree roots; the Mexicans stood in the open
door with Hugh, nodding at the weather and pointing on down the path,
while within the cantina the barman helped himself to a drink from under
the bar.

—“No! . . .” Hugh shouted against the tumult. “He hasn’t been there at
all! We might try this other place though!”

“—”

“On the road!”

Beyond the El Petate their path veered to the right past a dog-kennel to
which an anteater nuzzling the black earth was chained. Hugh took
Yvonne’s arm.

“See the anteater? Do you remember the armadillo?”

“I haven’t forgotten, _anything_!”

Yvonne said this, as they fell into step, not knowing quite what she
meant. Wild woodland creatures plunged past them in the undergrowth, and
everywhere she looked in vain for her eagle, half hoping to see it once
more. The jungle was thinning out gradually. Rotting vegetation lay
about them, and there was a smell of decay; the barranca couldn’t be far
off. Then the air blew strangely warmer and sweeter, and the path was
steeper. The last time Yvonne had come this way she’d heard a
whip-poor-will. _Whip-poor-will_, _whip-peri-will_, the plaintive lonely
voice of spring at home had said, and calling one home—to where? To her
father’s home in Ohio? And what should a whip-poor-will be doing so far
from home itself in a dark Mexican forest? But the whip-poor-will, like
love and wisdom, had no home; and perhaps, as the Consul had then added,
it was better here than routing around Cayenne, where it was supposed to
winter.

They were climbing, approaching a little hilltop clearing; Yvonne could
see the sky. But she couldn’t get her bearings. The Mexican sky had
become strange and to-night the stars found for her a message even
lonelier than that remembered one of the poor nestless whip-poor-will.
Why are we here, they seemed to say, in the wrong place, and all the
wrong shape, so far away, so far, so far away from home? From what home?
When had not she, Yvonne, _come_ home? But the stars by their very being
consoled her. And walking on she felt her mood of detachment returning.
Now Yvonne and Hugh were high enough to see, through the trees, the
stars low down on the western horizon.

Scorpio, setting . . . Sagittarius, Capricornus; ah, there, here they
were, after all, in their right places, their configurations all at once
right, recognised, their pure geometry scintillating, flawless. And
to-night as five thousand years ago they would rise and set: Capricorn,
Aquarius, with, beneath, lonely Fomalhaut; Pisces; and the Ram; Taurus,
with Aldebaran and the Pleiades. “As Scorpio sets in the southwest, the
Pleiades are rising in the northeast.” “As Capricorn sets in the west,
Orion rises in the east. And Cetus, the Whale, with Mira.” To-night, as
ages hence, people would say this, or shut their doors on them, turn in
bereaved agony from them, or toward them with love saying: “That is our
star up there, yours and mine”; steer by them above the clouds or lost
at sea, or standing in the spray on the forecastle head, watch them,
suddenly, careen; put their faith or lack of it in them; train, in a
thousand observatories, feeble telescopes upon them, across whose lenses
swam mysterious swarms of stars and clouds of dead dark stars,
catastrophes of exploding suns, or giant Antares raging to its end—a
smouldering ember yet five hundred times greater than the earth’s sun.
And the earth itself still turning on its axis and revolving around that
sun, the sun revolving around the luminous wheel of this galaxy, the
countless unmeasured jewelled wheels of countless unmeasured galaxies,
turning, turning, majestically, into infinity, into eternity, through
all of which all life ran on—all this, long after she herself was dead,
men would still be reading in the night sky, and as the earth turned
through those distant seasons, and they watched the constellations still
rising, culminating, setting, to rise again—Aries, Taurus, Gemini, the
Crab, Leo, Virgo, the Scales and the Scorpion, Capricorn the Sea-goat
and Aquarius the Water Bearer, Pisces, and once more, triumphantly,
Aries!—would they not, too, still be asking the hopeless eternal
question: to what end? What force drives this sublime celestial
machinery? Scorpio, setting . . . And rising, Yvonne thought, unseen
behind the volcanoes, those whose culmination was at midnight to-night,
as Aquarius set; and some would watch with a sense of fleeting, yet
feeling their diamonded brightness gleam an instant on the soul,
touching all within that in memory was sweet or noble or courageous or
proud, as high overhead appeared, flying softly like a flock of birds
toward Orion, the beneficent Pleiades . . .

The mountains that had been lost from sight now stood ahead again as
they walked on through the dwindling forest.—Yet Yvonne still hung
back.

Far away to the southeast the low leaning horn of moon, their pale
companion of the morning, was setting finally, and she watched it—the
dead child of the earth!—with a strange hungry supplication.—The Sea
of Fecundity, diamond-shaped, and the Sea of Nectar, pentagonal in form,
and Frascatorius with its north wall broken down, the giant west wall of
Endymion, elliptical near the Western limb; the Leibnitz mountains at
the Southern Horn, and east of Proclus, the Marsh of a Dream. Hercules
and Atlas stood there, in the midst of cataclysm, beyond our knowledge—

The moon had gone. A hot gust of wind blew in their faces and lightning
blazed white and jagged in the northeast: thunder spoke, economically; a
poised avalanche . . .

The path growing steeper inclined still further to their right and began
to twist through scattered sentinels of trees, tall and lone, and
enormous cactus, whose writhing innumerable spined hands, as the path
turned, blocked the view on every side. It grew so dark it was
surprising not to find blackest night in the world beyond.

Yet the sight that met their eyes as they emerged on the road was
terrifying. The massed black clouds were still mounting the twilight
sky. High above them, at a vast height, a dreadfully vast height,
bodiless black birds, more like skeletons of birds, were drifting.
Snowstorms drove along the summit of Ixtaccihuatl, obscuring it, while
its mass was shrouded by cumulus. But the whole precipitous bulk of
Popocatepetl seemed to be coming toward them, travelling with the
clouds, leaning forward over the valley on whose side, thrown into
relief by the curious melancholy light, shone one little rebellious
hilltop with a tiny cemetery cut into it.

The cemetery was swarming with people visible only as their candle
flames.

But suddenly it was as if a heliograph of lightning were stammering
messages across the wild landscape; and they made out, frozen, the
minute black and white figures themselves. And now, as they listened for
the thunder, they heard them: soft cries and lamentations, wind-borne,
wandering down to them. The mourners were chanting over the graves of
their loved ones, playing guitars softly or praying. A sound like
windbells, a ghostly tintinnabulation, reached their ears.

A titanic roar of thunder overwhelmed it, rolling down the valleys. The
avalanche had started. Yet it had not overwhelmed the candle flames.
There they still gleamed, undaunted, a few moving now in procession.
Some of the mourners were filing off down the hillside.

Yvonne felt with gratitude the hard road beneath her feet. The lights of
the Hotel y Restaurant El Popo sprang up. Over a garage next door an
electric sign was stabbing: _Euzkadi_.—A radio somewhere was playing
wildly hot music at an incredible speed.

American cars stood outside the restaurant ranged before the cul-de-sac
at the edge of the jungle, giving the place something of the withdrawn,
waiting character that pertains to a border at night, and a border of
sorts there was, not far from here, where the ravine, bridged away to
the right on the outskirts of the old capital, marked the state line.

On the porch, for an instant, the Consul sat dining quietly by himself.
But only Yvonne had seen him. They threaded their way through the round
tables and into a bare ill-defined bar where the Consul sat frowning in
a corner with three Mexicans. But none save Yvonne noticed him. The
barman had not seen the Consul. Nor had the assistant manager, an
unusually tall Japanese also the cook, who recognised Yvonne. Yet even
as they denied all knowledge of him (and though by this time Yvonne had
quite made up her mind he was in the Farolito) the Consul was
disappearing round every corner, and going out of every door. A few
tables set along the tiled floor outside the bar were deserted, yet here
the Consul also sat dimly, rising at their approach. And out behind by
the patio it was the Consul who pushed his chair back and came forward,
bowing, to meet them.

In fact, as often turns out for some reason in such places, there were
not enough people in the El Popo to account for the number of cars
outside.

Hugh was casting round him, half for the music, which seemed coming from
a radio in one of the cars and which sounded like absolutely nothing on
earth in this desolate spot, an abysmal mechanic force out of control
that was running itself to death, was breaking up, was hurtling into
dreadful trouble, had, abruptly, ceased.

The patio of the pub was a long rectangular garden overgrown with
flowers and weeds. Verandahs, half in darkness, and arched on their
parapets, giving them an effect of cloisters, ran down either side.
Bedrooms opened off the verandahs. The light from the restaurant behind
picked out, here and there, a scarlet flower, a green shrub, with
unnatural vividness. Two angry-looking macaws with bright ruffled
plumage sat in iron rings between the arches.

Lightning, flickering, fired the windows a moment; wind crepitated the
leaves and subsided, leaving a hot void in which the trees thrashed
chaotically. Yvonne leaned against an arch and took off her hat; one of
the cockatoos screeched and she pressed the palms of her hands against
her ears, pressing them harder as the thunder started again, holding
them there with her eyes shut absently until it stopped, and the two
bleak beers Hugh’d ordered had arrived.

“Well,” he was saying, “this is somewhat different from the Cervecería
Quauhnahuac . . . Indeed! . . . Yes, I guess I’ll always remember this
morning. The sky was so blue, wasn’t it?”

“And the woolly dog and the foals that came with us and the river with
those swift birds overhead—”

“How far to the Farolito now?”

“About a mile and a half. We can cut nearly a mile if we take the forest
path.”

“In the dark?”

“We can’t wait very long if you’re going to make the last bus back to
Quauhnahuac. It’s after six now. I can’t drink this beer, can you?”

“No. It tastes like gunmetal—hell—Christ,” Hugh said, “let’s—”

“Have a different drink,” Yvonne proposed, half ironically.

“Couldn’t we _phone_?”

“Mescal,” Yvonne said brightly.

The air was so full of electricity it trembled.

“Comment?”

“Mescal, por favor,” Yvonne repeated, shaking her head solemnly,
sardonically. “I’ve always wanted to find out what Geoffrey sees in it.”

“Cómo no, let’s have two mescals.”

But Hugh had still not returned when the two drinks were brought by a
different waiter questioning the gloom, who, balancing the tray on one
palm, switched on another light.

The drinks Yvonne had had at dinner and during the day, relatively few
though they’d been, lay like swine on her soul: some moments passed
before she reached out her hand and drank.

Sickly, sullen, and ether-tasting, the mescal produced at first no
warmth in her stomach, only, like the beer, a coldness, a chill. But it
worked. From the porch outside a guitar, slightly out of tune, struck up
La Paloma, a Mexican voice was singing, and the mescal was still
working. It had in the end the quality of a good hard drink. Where was
Hugh? Had he found the Consul here, after all? No: she knew he was not
here. She gazed round the El Popo, a soulless draughty death that ticked
and groaned, as Geoff himself once said—a bad ghost of an American
roadhouse; but it no longer appeared so awful. She selected a lemon from
the table and squeezed a few drops into her glass and all this took her
an inordinately long time to do.

All at once she became conscious she was laughing unnaturally to
herself, something within her was smouldering, was on fire: and once
more, too, in her brain a picture shaped of a woman ceaselessly beating
her fists on the ground . . .

But no, it was not herself that was on fire. It was the house of her
spirit. It was her dream. It was the farm, it was Orion, the Pleiades,
it was their house by the sea. But where was the fire? It was the Consul
who had been the first to notice it. What were these crazy thoughts,
thoughts without form or logic? She stretched out her hand for the other
mescal, Hugh’s mescal, and the fire went out, was overwhelmed by a
sudden wave through her whole being of desperate love and tenderness for
the Consul.

—_very dark and clear with an onshore wind, and the sound of surf you
couldn’t see, deep in the spring night the summer stars were overhead,
presage of summer, and the stars bright; clear and dark, and the moon
had not risen; a beautiful strong clean onshore wind, and then the
waning moon rising over the water, and later, inside the house, the roar
of unseen surf beating in the night_—

“How do you like the mescal?”

Yvonne jumped up. She had been almost crouching over Hugh’s drink; Hugh,
swaying, stood over her, carrying under his arm a long battered
key-shaped canvas case.

“What in the world have you got there?” Yvonne’s voice was blurred and
remote.

Hugh put the case on the parapet. Then he laid on the table an electric
torch. It was a boy scout contraption like a ship’s ventilator with a
metal ring to slip your belt through. “I met the fellow on the porch
Geoff was so bloody rude to in the Salón Ofélia and I bought this from
him. But he wanted to sell his guitar and get a new one so I bought that
too. Only ocho pesos cincuenta—”

“What do you want a guitar for? Are you going to play the Internationale
or something on it, on board your ship?” Yvonne said.

“How’s the mescal?” Hugh said again.

“Like ten yards of barbed wire fence. It nearly took the top of my head
off. Here, this is yours, Hugh, what’s left of it.”

Hugh sat down: “I had a tequila outside with the guitar hombre . . .

“Well,” he added, “I’m definitely not going to try and get to Mexico
City to-night, and that once decided there’re various things we might do
about Geoff.”

“I’d rather like to get tight,” Yvonne said.

“Como tu quieras. It might be a good idea.”

“Why did you say it would be a good idea to get tight?” Yvonne was
asking over the new mescals; then, “What did you get a guitar for?” she
repeated.

“To sing with. To give people the lie with maybe.”

“What are you so strange for, Hugh? To give what people what lie?”

Hugh tilted back his chair until it touched the parapet behind him, then
sat like that, smoking, nursing his mescal in his lap.

“The kind of lie Sir Walter Raleigh meditates, when he addresses his
soul. ‘The truth shall be thy warrant. Go, since I needs must die. And
give the world the lie. Say to the court it glows, and shines like
rotten wood. Say to the church it shows, what’s good and doth no good.
If Church and Court reply, then give them both the lie.’ That sort of
thing, only slightly different.”

“You’re dramatising yourself, Hugh. Salud y pesetas.”

“Salud y pesetas.”

“Salud y pesetas.”

He stood, smoking, drink in hand, leaning against the dark monastic
archway and looking down at her:

“But on the contrary,” he was saying, “we do want to do good, to help,
to be brothers in distress. We will even condescend to be crucified, on
certain terms. And _are_, for that matter, regularly, every twenty years
or so. But to an Englishman it’s such terribly bad form to be a bona
fide martyr. We may respect with one part of our minds the integrity,
say, of men like Gandhi, or Nehru. We may even recognize that their
selflessness, by example, might save us. But in our hearts we cry ‘Throw
the bloody little man in the river.’ Or ‘Set Barrabas free!’ ‘O’Dwyer
forever!’ Jesus!—It’s even pretty bad form for Spain to be a martyr
too; in a very different way of course . . . And if Russia should
prove—”

Hugh was saying all this while Yvonne was scanning a document he’d just
skimmed onto the table for her. It was an old soiled and creased menu of
the house simply, that seemed to have been picked up from the floor, or
spent a long period in someone’s pocket, and this she read, with
alcoholic deliberation, several times:

                               “EL POPO”
                 S E R V I C I O   Á   L A   C A R T A

Sopa de ajo                                                          $0.30
Enchiladas de salsa verde                                             0.40
Chiles rellenos                                                       0.75
Rajas a la “Popo”                                                     0.75
Machitos en salsa verde                                               0.75
Menudo estilo soñora                                                  0.75
Pierna de ternera al horno                                            1.25
Cabrito al horno                                                      1.25
Asado de pollo                                                        1.25
Chuletas de cerdo                                                     1.25
Filete con papas o al gusto                                           1.25
Sandwiches                                                            0.40
Frijoles refritos                                                     0.30
Chocolate a la española                                               0.60
Chocolate a la francesa                                               0.40
Café solo o con leche                                                 0.20

This much was typed in blue and underneath it—she made out with the
same deliberation—was a design like a small wheel round the inside of
which was written “Lotería Nacional Para La Beneficencia Pública,”
making another circular frame, within which appeared a sort of trade or
hallmark representing a happy mother caressing her child.

The whole left side of the menu was taken up by a full-length
lithographic portrait of a smiling young woman surmounted by the
announcement that Hotel Restaurant El Popo se observa la más estricta
moralidad, siendo este disposición de su proprietario una garantía para
al pasajero, que llegue en compañía: Yvonne studied this woman: she was
buxom and dowdy, with a quasi-American coiffure, and she was wearing a
long, confetti-colored print dress: with one hand she was beckoning
roguishly, while with the other she held up a block of ten lottery
tickets, on each of which a cow-girl was riding a bucking horse and (as
if these ten minute figures were Yvonne’s own reduplicated and
half-forgotten selves waving good-bye to herself) waving her hand.

“Well,” she said.

“No, I meant on the other side,” Hugh said.

Yvonne turned the menu over and then sat staring blankly.

The back of the menu was almost covered by the Consul’s handwriting at
its most chaotic. At the top on the left was written:

                               _Recknung_

           1 ron y anís                                   1.20
           1 ron Salón Brasse                              .60
           1 tequila doble                                 .30
                                                            ——
                                                          2.10

This was signed G. Firmin. It was a small bill left here by the Consul
some months ago, a chit he’d made out for himself—“No, I just paid it,”
said Hugh, who was now sitting beside her.

But below this “reckoning” was written, enigmatically, “dearth . . .
filth . . . earth,” below that was a long scrawl of which one could make
nothing. In the centre of the paper were seen these words: “rope . . .
cope . . . grope,” then, “of a cold cell,” while on the right, the
parent and partial explanation of these prodigals, appeared what looked
a poem in process of composition, an attempt at some kind of sonnet
perhaps, but of a wavering and collapsed design, and so crossed out and
scrawled over and stained, defaced, and surrounded with scratchy
drawings—of a club, a wheel, even a long black box like a coffin—as to
be almost undecipherable; at last it had this semblance:

         Some years ago he started to escape
         . . . . . . . . has been . . . escaping ever since
         Not knowing his pursuers gave up hope
         Of seeing him (dance) at the end of a rope
         Hounded by eyes and thronged terrors now the lens
         Of a glaring world that shunned even his defense
         Reading him strictly in the preterite tense
         Spent no . . . . . thinking him not worth
         (Even) . . . . the price of a cold cell.
         There would have been a scandal at his death
         Perhaps. No more than this. Some tell
         Strange hellish tales of this poor foundered soul
         Who once fled north . . .

Who once fled north, she thought. Hugh was saying:

“Vámonos.”

Yvonne said yes.

Outside the wind was blowing with an odd shrillness. A loose shutter
somewhere banged and banged, and the electric sign over the garage
prodded the night: _Euzkadi_—

The clock above it—man’s public inquiry of the hour!—said twelve to
seven: “Who once fled north.” The diners had left the porch of the El
Popo . . .

Lightning as they started down the steps was followed by volleys of
thunder almost at once, dispersed and prolonged. Piling black clouds
swallowed the stars to the north and east; Pegasus pounded up the sky
unseen; but overhead it was still clear: Vega, Deneb, Altair; through
the trees, toward the west, Hercules. “Who once fled north,” she
repeated.—Straight ahead of them beside the road was a ruined Grecian
temple, dim, with two tall slender pillars, approached by two broad
steps: or there had been a moment this temple, with its exquisite beauty
of pillars, and, perfect in balance and proportion, its broad expanse of
steps, that became now two beams of windy light from the garage, falling
across the road, and the pillars, two telegraph poles.

They turned into the path. Hugh, with his torch, projected a phantom
target, expanding, becoming enormous, and that swerved and transparently
tangled with the cactus. The path narrowed and they walked, Hugh behind,
in single file, the luminous target gliding before them in sweeping
concentric ellipticities, across which her own wrong shadow leaped, or
the shadow of a giantess.—The candelabras appeared salt grey where the
flashlight caught them, too stiff and fleshy to be bending with the
wind, in a slow multitudinous heaving, an inhuman cackling of scales and
spines.

“Who once fled north . . .”

Yvonne now felt cold sober: the cactus fell away, and the path, still
narrow, through tall trees and undergrowth, seemed easy enough.

“Who once fled north.” But they were not going north, they were going to
the Farolito. Nor had the Consul fled north then, he’d probably gone of
course, just as to-night, to the Farolito. “There might have been a
scandal at his death.” The treetops made a sound like water rushing over
their heads. “At his death.”

Yvonne was sober. It was the undergrowth, which made sudden swift
movements into their path, obstructing it, that was not sober; the
mobile trees were not sober; and finally it was Hugh, who she now
realised had only brought her this far to prove the better practicality
of the road, the danger of these woods under the discharges of
electricity now nearly on top of them, who was not sober: and Yvonne
found she had stopped abruptly, her hands clenched so tightly her
fingers hurt, saying:

“We ought to hurry, it must be almost seven,” then, that she was
hurrying, almost running down the path, talking loudly and excitedly:
“Did I tell you that the last night before I left a year ago Geoffrey
and I made an appointment for dinner in Mexico City and he forgot the
place, he told me, and went from restaurant to restaurant looking for
me, just as we’re looking for him now.”

                   “_En los talleres y arsenales_
                   _a guerra! todos, tocan ya;_”

Hugh sang resignedly, in a deep voice.

“—and it was the same way when I first met him in Granada. We made an
appointment for dinner in a place near the Alhambra and I thought he’d
meant us to meet _in_ the Alhambra, and I couldn’t find him and now it’s
_me_, looking for him again—on my first night back.”

                “_—todos, tocan ya;_
                _morir ¿quién quiere por la gloria_
                _o por vendedores de cañones?_”

Thunder volleyed through the forest, and Yvonne almost stopped dead
again, half imagining she had seen, for an instant, beckoning her on at
the end of the path, the fixedly smiling woman with the lottery tickets.

“How much further?” Hugh asked.

“We’re nearly there, I think. There’s a couple of turns in the path
ahead and a fallen log we have to climb over.”

                     “_Adelante, la juventud,_
                     _al asalto, vamos ya,_
                     _y contra los imperialismos,_
                     _para un nuevo mundo hacer._

“I guess you were right then,” Hugh said.

There was a lull in the storm that for Yvonne, looking up at the dark
treetops’ long slow swaying in the wind against the tempestuous sky, was
a moment like that of the tide’s turning, and yet that was filled with
some quality of this morning’s ride with Hugh, some night essence of
their shared morning thoughts, with a wild sea-yearning of youth and
love and sorrow.

A sharp pistol-like report, from somewhere ahead, as of a back-firing
car, broke this swaying stillness, followed by another and another:
“More target practice,” Hugh laughed; yet these were different mundane
sounds to hold as a relief against the sickening thunder that followed,
for they meant Parián was near, soon its dim lights would gleam through
the trees: by a lightning flash bright as day they had seen a sad
useless arrow pointing back the way they’d come, to the burned
Anochtitlán: and now, in the profounder gloom, Hugh’s own light fell
across a tree trunk on the left side where a wooden sign with a pointing
hand confirmed their direction:

                              A  PARIÁN ☛

Hugh was singing behind her . . . It began to rain softly and a sweet
cleanly smell rose from the woods. And now, here was the place where the
path doubled back on itself, only to be blocked by a huge moss-covered
bole that divided it from that very same path she had decided against,
which the Consul must have taken beyond Tomalín. The mildewed ladder
with its wide-spaced rungs mounted against the near side of the bole was
still there, and Yvonne had clambered up it almost before she realised
she had lost Hugh’s light. Yvonne balanced herself someway on top of
this dark slippery log and saw his light again, a little to one side,
moving among the trees. She said with a certain note of triumph:

“Mind you don’t get off the path there, Hugh, it’s sort of tricky. And
mind the fallen log. There’s a ladder up this side, but you have to jump
down on the other.”

“Jump then,” said Hugh. “I must have got off your path.”

Yvonne, hearing the plangent complaint of his guitar as Hugh banged the
case, called: “Here I am, over here.”

     “_Hijos del pueblo que oprimen cadenas_
     _esa injusticia no debe existir_
     _si tu existencia es un mundo de penas_
     _antes que esclavo, prefiere morir prefiere morir_ . . .”

Hugh was singing ironically.

All at once the rain fell more heavily. A wind like an express train
swept through the forest; just ahead lightning struck through the trees
with a savage tearing and roar of thunder that shook the earth . . .

There is, sometimes in thunder, another person who thinks for you, takes
in one’s mental porch furniture, shuts and bolts the mind’s window
against what seems less appalling as a threat than as some distortion of
celestial privacy, a shattering insanity in heaven, a form of disgrace
forbidden mortals to observe too closely: but there is always a door
left open in the mind—as men have been known in great thunderstorms to
leave their real doors open for Jesus to walk in—for the entrance and
the reception of the unprecedented, the fearful acceptance of the
thunderbolt that never falls on oneself, for the lightning that always
hits the next street, for the disaster that so rarely strikes at the
disastrous likely hour, and it was through this mental door that Yvonne,
still balancing herself on the log, now perceived that something was
menacingly wrong. In the slackening thunder something was approaching
with a noise that was not the rain. It was an animal of some sort,
terrified by the storm, and whatever it might be—a deer, a horse,
unmistakably it had hooves—it was approaching at a dead run,
stampeding, plunging through the undergrowth: and now as the lightning
crashed again and the thunder subsided she heard a protracted neigh
becoming a scream almost human in its panic. Yvonne was aware that her
knees were trembling. Calling out to Hugh she tried to turn, in order to
climb back down the ladder, but felt her footing on the log give way:
slipping, she tried to regain her balance, slipped again and pitched
forward. One foot doubled under her with a sharp pain as she fell. The
next moment attempting to rise she saw, by a brilliant flash of
lightning, the riderless horse. It was plunging sideways, not at her,
and she saw its every detail, the jangling saddle sliding from its back,
even the number seven branded on its rump. Again trying to rise she
heard herself scream as the animal turned towards her and upon her. The
sky was a sheet of white flame against which the trees and the poised
rearing horse were an instant pinioned—

They were the cars at the fair that were whirling around her; no, they
were the planets, while the sun stood, burning and spinning and
glittering in the centre; here they came again, Mercury, Venus, Earth,
Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto; but they were not
planets, for it was not the merry-go-round at all, but the Ferris Wheel,
they were constellations, in the hub of which, like a great cold eye,
burned Polaris, and round and round it here they went: Cassiopeia,
Cepheus, the Lynx, Ursa Major, Ursa Minor, and the Dragon; yet they were
not constellations, but, somehow, myriads of beautiful butterflies, she
was sailing into Acapulco harbour through a hurricane of beautiful
butterflies, zigzagging overhead and endlessly vanishing astern over the
sea, the sea, rough and pure, the long dawn rollers advancing, rising,
and crashing down to glide in colorless ellipses over the sand, sinking,
sinking, someone was calling her name far away and she remembered, they
were in a dark wood, she heard the wind and the rain rushing through the
forest and saw the tremours of lightning shuddering through the heavens
and the horse—great God, the horse—and would this scene repeat itself
endlessly and forever?—the horse, rearing, poised over her, petrified
in midair, a statue, somebody was sitting on the statue, it was Yvonne
Griffaton, no, it was the statue of Huerta, the drunkard, the murderer,
it was the Consul, or it was a mechanical horse on the merry-go-round,
the carrousel, but the carrousel had stopped and she was in a ravine
down which a million horses were thundering towards her, and she must
escape, through the friendly forest to their house, their little home by
the sea. But the house was on fire, she saw it now from the forest, from
the steps above, she heard the crackling, it was on fire, everything was
burning, the dream was burning, the house was burning, yet here they
stood an instant, Geoffrey and she, inside it, inside the house,
wringing their hands, and everything seemed all right, in its right
place, the house was still there, everything dear and natural and
familiar, save that the roof was on fire and there was this noise as of
dry leaves blowing along the roof, this mechanical crackling, and now
the fire was spreading even while they watched, the cupboard, the
saucepans, the old kettle, the new kettle, the guardian figure on the
deep cool well, the trowels, the rake, the sloping shingled woodshed on
whose roof the white dogwood blossoms fell but would fall no more, for
the tree was burning, the fire was spreading faster and faster, the
walls with their millwheel reflections of sunlight on water were
burning, the flowers in the garden were blackened and burning, they
writhed, they twisted, they fell, the garden was burning, the porch
where they sat on spring mornings was burning, the red door, the
casement windows, the curtains she’d made were burning, Geoffrey’s old
chair was burning, his desk, and now his book, his book was burning, the
pages were burning, burning, burning, whirling up from the fire they
were scattered, burning, along the beach, and now it was growing darker
and the tide coming in, the tide washed under the ruined house, the
pleasure boats that had ferried song upstream sailed home silently over
the dark waters of Eridanus. Their house was dying, only an agony went
there now.

And leaving the burning dream Yvonne felt herself suddenly gathered
upwards and borne towards the stars, through eddies of stars scattering
aloft with ever wider circlings like rings on water, among which now
appeared, like a flock of diamond birds flying softly and steadily
towards Orion, the Pleiades . . .




                                  XII


“MESCAL,” said the Consul.

The main barroom of the Farolito was deserted. From a mirror behind the
bar, that also reflected the door open to the square, his face silently
glared at him, with stern, familiar foreboding.

Yet the place was not silent. It was filled by that ticking: the ticking
of his watch, his heart, his conscience, a clock somewhere. There was a
remote sound too, from far below, of rushing water, of subterranean
collapse; and moreover he could still hear them, the bitter wounding
accusations he had flung at his own misery, the voices as in argument,
his own louder than the rest, mingling now with those other voices that
seemed to be wailing from a distance distressfully: “Borracho,
Borrachón, Borraaaacho!”

But one of these voices was like Yvonne’s, pleading. He still felt her
look, their look in the Salón Ofélia, behind him. Deliberately he shut
out all thought of Yvonne. He drank two swift mescals: the voices
ceased.

Sucking a lemon he took stock of his surroundings. The mescal, while it
assuaged, slowed his mind; each object demanded some moments to impinge
upon him. In one corner of the room sat a white rabbit eating an ear of
Indian corn. It nibbled at the purple and black stops with an air of
detachment, as though playing a musical instrument. Behind the bar hung,
by a clamped swivel, a beautiful Oaxaqueñan gourd of mescal de olla,
from which his drink had been measured. Ranged on either side stood
bottles of Tenampa, Berreteaga, Tequila Añejo, Anís doble de Mallorca, a
violet decanter of Henry Mallet’s “delicioso licor,” a flask of
peppermint cordial, a tall voluted bottle of Anís del Mono, on the label
of which a devil brandished a pitchfork. On the wide counter before him
were saucers of toothpicks, chiles, lemons, a tumblerful of straws,
crossed long spoons in a glass tankard. At one end large bulbous jars of
many-colored aguardiente were set, raw alcohol with different flavours,
in which citrus fruit rinds floated. An advertisement tacked by the
mirror for last night’s ball in Quauhnahuac caught his eye: _Hotel Bella
Vista Gran Baile a Beneficio de la Cruz Roja. Los Mejores Artistas del
radio en acción. No falte Vd._ A scorpion clung to the advertisement.
The Consul noted all these things carefully. Drawing long sighs of icy
relief, he even counted the toothpicks. He was safe here; this was the
place he loved—sanctuary, the paradise of his despair.

The “barman”—the son of the Elephant—known as A Few Fleas, a small
dark sickly-looking child, was glancing nearsightedly through
horn-rimmed spectacles at a cartoon serial El Hijo del Diablo in a boys’
magazine, _Ti-to_. As he read, muttering to himself, he ate chocolates.
Returning another replenished glass of mescal to the Consul he slopped
some on the bar. He went on reading without wiping it up, however,
muttering, cramming himself with chocolate skulls bought for the Day of
the Dead, chocolate skeletons, chocolate, yes, funeral wagons. The
Consul pointed out the scorpion on the wall and the boy brushed it off
with a vexed gesture: it was dead. A Few Fleas turned back to his story,
muttering aloud thickly, “De pronto, Dalia vuelve en Sigrita llamando la
atención de un guardia que pasea. ¡Suélteme! ¡Suélteme!”

Save me, thought the Consul vaguely, as the boy suddenly went out for
change, suélteme, help: but maybe the scorpion, not wanting to be saved,
had stung itself to death. He strolled across the room. After
fruitlessly trying to make friends with the white rabbit, he approached
the open window on his right. It was almost a sheer drop to the bottom
of the ravine. What a dark, melancholy place! In Parián did Kubla Khan
. . . And the crag was still there too—just as in Shelley or Calderon
or both—the crag that couldn’t make up its mind to crumble absolutely,
it clung so, cleft, to life. The sheer height was terrifying, he
thought, leaning outwards, looking sideways at the split rock and
attempting to recall the passage in _The Cenci_ that described the huge
stack clinging to the mass of earth, as if resting on life, not afraid
to fall, but darkening, just the same, where it would go if it went. It
was a tremendous, an awful way down to the bottom. But it struck him he
was not afraid to fall either. He traced mentally the barranca’s
circuitous abysmal path back through the country, through shattered
mines, to his own garden, then saw himself standing again this morning
with Yvonne outside the printer’s shop, gazing at the picture of that
other rock, La Despedida, the glacial rock crumbling among the wedding
invitations in the shop window, the spinning flywheel behind. How long
ago, how strange, how sad, remote as the memory of first love, even of
his mother’s death, it seemed; like some poor sorrow, this time without
effort, Yvonne left his mind again.

Popocatepetl towered through the window, its immense flanks partly
hidden by rolling thunderheads; its peak blocking the sky, it appeared
almost right overhead, the barranca, the Farolito, directly beneath it.
Under the volcano! It was not for nothing the ancients had placed
Tartarus under Mt. Aetna, nor within it, the monster Typhoeus, with his
hundred heads and—relatively—fearful eyes and voices.

Turning, the Consul took his drink over to the open door. A
mercurochrome agony down the west. He stared out at Parián. There,
beyond a grass plot, was the inevitable square with its little public
garden. To the left, at the edge of the barranca, a soldier slept under
a tree. Half facing him, to the right, on an incline, stood what seemed
at first sight a ruined monastery or waterworks. This was the grey
turreted barracks of the Military Police he had mentioned to Hugh as the
reputed Union Militar headquarters. The building, which also included
the prison, glowered at him with one eye, over an archway set in the
forehead of its low façade: a clock pointing to six. On either side of
the archway the barred windows in the Comisario de Policía and the
Policía de Seguridad looked down on a group of soldiers talking, their
bugles slung over their shoulders with bright green lariats. Other
soldiers, puttees flapping, stumbled at sentry duty. Under the archway,
in the entrance to the courtyard, a corporal was working at a table, on
which stood an unlighted oil lamp. He was inscribing something in
copperplate handwriting, the Consul knew, for his rather unsteady course
hither—not so unsteady however as in the square at Quauhnahuac earlier,
but still disgraceful—had brought him almost on top of him. Through the
archway, grouped round the courtyard beyond, the Consul could make out
dungeons with wooden bars like pigpens. In one of them a man was
gesticulating. Elsewhere, to the left, were scattered huts of dark
thatch, merging into the jungle which on all sides surrounded the town,
glowing now in the unnatural livid light of approaching storm.

A Few Fleas having returned, the Consul went to the bar for his change.
The boy, not hearing apparently, slopped some mescal into his glass from
the beautiful gourd. Handing it back he upset the toothpicks. The Consul
said nothing further about the change for the moment. However he made a
mental note to order for his next drink something costing more than the
fifty centavos he had already laid down. In this way he saw himself
gradually recovering his money. He argued absurdly with himself that it
was necessary to remain for this alone. He knew there was another reason
yet couldn’t place his finger on it. Every time the thought of Yvonne
recurred to him he was aware of this. It seemed indeed then as though he
must stay here for her sake, not because she would _follow_ him
here—no, she had gone, he’d let her go finally now, Hugh might come,
though never she, not this time, obviously she would return home and his
mind could not travel beyond that point—but for something else. He saw
his change lying on the counter, the price of the mescal not deducted
from it. He pocketed it all and came to the door again. Now the
situation was reversed; the boy would have to keep an eye on _him_. It
lugubriously diverted him to imagine, for A Few Fleas’ benefit, though
half aware the preoccupied boy was not watching him at all, he had
assumed the blue expression peculiar to a certain type of drunkard,
tepid with two drinks grudgingly on credit, gazing out of an empty
saloon, an expression that pretends he hopes help, any kind of help, may
be on its way, friends, any kind of friends coming to rescue him. For
him life is always just around the corner, in the form of another drink
at a new bar. Yet he really wants none of these things. Abandoned by his
friends, as they by him, he knows that nothing but the crushing look of
a creditor lives round that corner. Neither has he fortified himself
sufficiently to borrow more money, nor obtain more credit; nor does he
like the liquor next door anyway. Why am I here, says the silence, what
have I done, echoes the emptiness, why have I ruined myself in this
wilful manner, chuckles the money in the till, why have I been brought
so low, wheedles the thoroughfare, to which the only answer was—The
square gave him no answer. The little town, that had seemed empty, was
filling up as evening wore on. Occasionally a moustachioed officer
swaggered past, with a heavy gait, slapping his swagger stick on his
leggings. People were returning from the cemeteries, though perhaps the
procession would not pass for some time. A ragged platoon of soldiers
were marching across the square. Bugles blared. The police too—those
who were not on strike, or had been pretending to be on duty at the
graves, or the deputies, it was not easy to get the distinction between
the police and the military clear in one’s mind either—had arrived in
force. Con German friends, doubtless. The corporal was still writing at
his table; it oddly reassured him. Two or three drinkers pushed their
way past him into the Farolito, tasselled sombreros on the backs of
their heads, holsters slapping their thighs. Two beggars had arrived and
were taking up their posts outside the bar, under the tempestuous sky.
One, legless, was dragging himself through the dust like a poor seal.
But the other beggar, who boasted one leg, stood up stiffly, proudly,
against the cantina wall as if waiting to be shot. Then this beggar with
one leg leaned forward: he dropped a coin into the legless man’s
outstretched hand. There were tears in the first beggar’s eyes. The
Consul now observed that on his extreme right some unusual animals
resembling geese, but large as camels, and skinless men, without heads,
upon stilts, whose animated entrails jerked along the ground, were
issuing out of the forest path the way he had come. He shut his eyes
from this and when he opened them someone who looked like a policeman
was leading a horse up the path, that was all. He laughed, despite the
policeman, then stopped. For he saw that the face of the reclining
beggar was slowly changing to Señora Gregorio’s, and now in turn to his
mother’s face, upon which appeared an expression of infinite pity and
supplication.

Closing his eyes again, standing there, glass in hand, he thought for a
minute with a freezing detached almost amused calm of the dreadful night
inevitably awaiting him whether he drank much more or not, his room
shaking with daemonic orchestras, the snatches of fearful tumultuous
sleep, interrupted by voices which were really dogs barking, or by his
own name being continually repeated by imaginary parties arriving, the
vicious shouting, the strumming, the slamming, the pounding, the
battling with insolent archfiends, the avalanche breaking down the door,
the proddings from under the bed, and always, outside, the cries, the
wailing, the terrible music, the dark’s spinets: he returned to the bar.

Diosdado, the Elephant, had just entered from the back. The Consul
watched him discard his black coat, hang it in the closet, then feel in
the breast pocket of his spotless white shirt for a pipe protruding from
it. He took this out and began to fill it from a package of Country Club
el Bueno Tono tobacco. The Consul remembered now about his pipe: here it
was, no doubt about that.

“Sí, sí, mistair,” he replied, listening with bent head to the Consul’s
query. “Claro. No—my ah peeper no Inglese. Monterey peeper. You
were—ah—borracho one day then. No señor?”

“¿Cómo no?” said the Consul.

“Twice a day.” “You was dronk three times a day,” Diosdado said, and his
look, the insult, the implied extent of his downfall, penetrated the
Consul. “Then you’ll be going back to America now,” he added, rummaging
behind the bar.

“I—no—por qué?”

Diosdado suddenly slapped a fat package of envelopes fastened with
elastic on the bar counter. “—es suyo?” he asked directly.

_Where are the letters Geoffrey Firmin the letters the letters she wrote
till her heart broke?_ Here were the letters, here and nowhere else:
these were the letters and this the Consul knew immediately without
examining the envelopes. When he spoke he could not recognize his own
voice:

“Sí, señor, muchas gracias,” he said.

“De nada, señor.” The Godgiven turned away.

La rame inutile fatigua vainement une mer immobile . . . The Consul
could not move for a full minute. He could not even make a move toward a
drink. Then he began to trace sideways in spilled liquor a little map on
the bar. Diosdado came back and watched with interest. “España,” the
Consul said, then his Spanish failing him, “You are Spanish, señor?”

“Sí, sí, señor, sí,” said Diosdado, watching, but in a new tone.
“Español. España.”

“These letters you gave me—see?—are from my wife, my esposa. Claro?
This is where we met. In Spain. You recognize it, your old home, you
know Andalusia? That, up there, that’s the Guadalquivir. Beyond there,
the Sierra Morena. Down there’s Almería. Those,” he traced with his
finger, “lying between, are the Sierra Nevada mountains. And there’s
Granada. That is the place. The very place we met.” The Consul smiled.

“Granada,” said Diosdado, sharply, in a different, harder pronunciation
to the Consul’s. He gave him a searching, an important, suspicious look,
then left him again. Now he was speaking to a group at the other end of
the bar. Faces were turned in the Consul’s direction.

The Consul carried another drink with Yvonne’s letters into an inner
room, one of the boxes in the Chinese puzzle. He hadn’t remembered
before they were framed in dull glass, like cashiers’ offices in a bank.
In this room he was not really surprised to find the old Tarascan woman
of the Bella Vista this morning. Her tequila, surrounded by dominoes,
was set before her on the round table. Her chicken pecked among them.
The Consul wondered if they were her own; or was it just necessary for
her to have dominoes wherever she happened to be? Her stick with the
claw handle hung, as though alive, on the edge of the table. The Consul
moved to her, drank half his mescal, took off his glasses, then slipped
the elastic from the package.

—“Do you remember to-morrow?” he read. No, he thought; the words sank
like stones in his mind.—It was a fact that he was losing touch with
his situation . . . He was dissociated from himself, and at the same
time he saw this plainly, the shock of receiving the letters having in a
sense waked him, if only, so to say, from one somnambulism into another;
he was drunk, he was sober, he had a hangover; all at once; it was after
six in the evening, yet whether it was being in the Farolito, or the
presence of the old woman in this glass-framed room where an electric
light was burning, he seemed back in the early morning again: it was
almost as if he were yet another kind of drunkard, in different
circumstances, in another country, to whom something quite different was
happening: he was like a man who gets up half stupefied with liquor at
dawn, chattering “Jesus this is the kind of fellow I am. Ugh! Ugh!” to
see his wife off by an early bus, though it is too late, and there is
the note on the breakfast table: “Forgive me for being hysterical
yesterday, such an outburst was certainly not excused on any grounds of
your having hurt me, don’t forget to bring in the milk,” beneath which
he finds written, almost as an afterthought: “Darling, we can’t go on
like this, it’s too awful, I’m leaving—” and who, instead of perceiving
the whole significance of this, remembers incongruously he told the
barman at too great length last night how somebody’s house burned
down—and why has he told him where he lives, now the police will be
able to find out—and why is the barman’s name Sherlock? an
unforgettable name!—and having a glass of port and water and three
aspirin, which make him sick, reflects that he has five hours before the
pubs open when he must return to that same bar and apologise . . . But
where did I put my cigarette? and why is my glass of port under the
bathtub? and was that an explosion I heard, somewhere in the house?

And encountering his accusing eyes in another mirror within the little
room, the Consul had the queer passing feeling he’d risen in bed to do
this, that he had sprung up and must gibber “Coriolanus is dead!” or
“muddle muddle muddle” or “I think it was, Oh! Oh!” or something really
senseless like “buckets, buckets, millions of buckets in the soup!” and
that he would now (though he was sitting quite calmly in the Farolito)
relapse once more upon the pillows to watch, shaking in impotent terror
at himself, the beards and eyes form in the curtains, or fill the space
between the wardrobe and the ceiling, and hear, from the street, the
soft padding of the eternal ghostly policeman outside—

“Do you remember to-morrow? It is our wedding anniversary . . . I have
not had one word from you since I left. God, it is this silence that
frightens me.”

The Consul drank some more mescal.

“It is this silence that frightens me—this silence—”

The Consul read this sentence over and over again, the same sentence,
the same letter, all of the letters vain as those arriving on shipboard
in port for one lost at sea, because he found some difficulty in
focussing, the words kept blurring and dissembling, his own name
starting out at him: but the mescal had brought him in touch with his
situation again to the extent that he did not now need to comprehend any
meaning in the words beyond their abject confirmation of his own
lostness, his own fruitless selfish ruin, now perhaps finally
self-imposed, his brain, before this cruelly disregarded evidence of
what heartbreak he had caused _her_, at an agonized standstill.

“It is this silence that frightens me. I have pictured all sorts of
tragic things befalling you, it is as though you were away at war and I
were waiting, waiting for news of you, for the letter, the telegram
. . . but no war could have this power to so chill and terrify my heart.
I send you all my love and my whole heart and all my thoughts and
prayers.”—The Consul was aware, drinking, that the woman with the
dominoes was trying to attract his attention, opening her mouth and
pointing into it: now she was subtly moving round the table nearer
him.—“Surely you must have thought a great deal of _us_, of what we
built together, of how mindlessly we destroyed the structure and the
beauty but yet could not destroy the memory of that beauty. It has been
this which has haunted me day and night. Turning I see us in a hundred
places with a hundred smiles. I come into a street, and you are there. I
creep at night to bed and you are waiting for me. What is there in life
besides the person whom one adores and the life one can build with that
person? For the first time I understand the meaning of suicide . . .
God, how pointless and empty the world is! Days filled with cheap and
tarnished moments succeed each other, restless and haunted nights follow
in bitter routine: the sun shines without brightness, and the moon rises
without light. My heart has the taste of ashes, and my throat is tight
and weary with weeping. What is a lost soul? It is one that has turned
from its true path and is groping in the darkness of remembered ways—”

The old woman was plucking at his sleeve and the Consul—had Yvonne been
reading the letters of Heloise and Abelard?—reached out to press an
electric bell, the urbane yet violent presence of which in these odd
little niches never failed to give him a shock. A moment later A Few
Fleas entered with a bottle of tequila in one hand and of mescal
Xicotancatl in the other but he took the bottles away after pouring
their drinks. The Consul nodded to the old woman, motioned to her
tequila, drank most of his mescal, and resumed reading. He could not
remember whether he had paid or not.—“Oh Geoffrey, how bitterly I
regret it now. Why did we postpone it? Is it too late? I want your
children, soon, at once, I want them. I want your life filling and
stirring me. I want your happiness beneath my heart and your sorrows in
my eyes and your peace in the fingers of my hand—” The Consul paused,
what was she saying? He rubbed his eyes, then fumbled for his
cigarettes: Alas; the tragic word droned round the room like a bullet
that had passed through him. He read on, smoking;—“You are walking on
the edge of an abyss where I may not follow. I wake to a darkness in
which I must follow myself endlessly, hating the I who so eternally
pursues and confronts me. If we could rise from our misery, seek each
other once more, and find again the solace of each other’s lips and
eyes. Who is to stand between? Who can prevent?”

The Consul stood up—Yvonne had certainly been reading
_something_—bowed to the old woman, and went out into the bar he’d
imagined filling up behind him, but which was still fairly deserted. Who
indeed was to stand between? He posted himself at the door again, as
sometimes before in the deceptive violet dawn: who indeed could prevent?
Once more he stared at the square. The same ragged platoon of soldiers
still seemed to be crossing it, as in some disrupted movie repeating
itself. The corporal still toiled at his copperplate handwriting under
the archway, only his lamp was alight. It was getting dark. The police
were nowhere to be seen. Though by the barranca the same soldier was
still asleep under a tree; or wasn’t it a soldier, but something else?
He looked away. Black clouds were boiling up again, there was a distant
breaking of thunder. He breathed the oppressive air in which there was a
slight hint of coolness. Who indeed, even now, was to stand between? he
thought desperately. Who indeed even now could prevent? He wanted Yvonne
at this moment, to take her in his arms, wanted more than ever before to
be forgiven, and to forgive: but where should he go? Where would he find
her now? A whole unlikely family of indeterminate class were strolling
past the door: the grandfather in front, correcting his watch, peering
at the dim barracks clock that still said six, the mother laughing and
drawing her rebozo over her head, mocking the probable storm (up in the
mountains two drunken gods standing far apart were still engaged in an
endlessly indecisive and wildly swinging game of bumblepuppy with a
Burmese gong), the father by himself smiling proudly, contemplatively,
clicking his fingers, flicking a speck of dust now from his fine brown
shiny boots. Two pretty little children with limpid black eyes were
walking between them hand in hand. Suddenly the elder child freed her
sister’s hand, and turned a succession of cartwheels on the lush grass
plot. All of them were laughing. The Consul hated to look at them . . .
They’d gone anyway, thank God. Miserably he wanted Yvonne and did not
want her. “Quiere María?” a voice spoke softly behind him.

At first he saw only the shapely legs of the girl who was leading him,
now by the constricted power of aching flesh alone, of pathetic
trembling yet brutal lust, through the little glass-paned rooms, that
grew smaller and smaller, darker and darker, until by the mingitorio,
the “Señores,” out of whose evil-smelling gloom broke a sinister
chuckle, there was merely a lightless annex no larger than a cupboard in
which two men whose faces he couldn’t see either were sitting, drinking
or plotting.

Then it struck him that some reckless murderous power was drawing him
on, forcing him, while he yet remained passionately aware of the all too
possible consequences and somehow as innocently unconscious, to do
without precaution or conscience what he would never be able to undo or
gainsay, leading him irresistibly out into the garden—lightning-filled
at this moment, it reminded him queerly of his own house, and also of El
Popo, where earlier he had thought of going, only this was grimmer, the
obverse of it—leading him through the open door into the darkening
room, one of many giving on the patio.

So this was it, the final stupid unprophylactic rejection. He could
prevent it even now. He would not prevent it. Yet perhaps his familiars,
or one of his voices, might have some good advice: he looked about him,
listening; _erectis whoribus_. No voices came. Suddenly he laughed: it
had been clever of him to trick his voices. They didn’t know he was
here. The room itself, in which gleamed a single blue electric bulb, was
not sordid: at first sight it was a student’s room. In fact it closely
resembled his old room at college, only this was more spacious. There
were the same great doors and a bookcase in a familiar place, with a
book open on top of the shelves. In one corner, incongruously, stood a
gigantic sabre. Kashmir! He imagined he’d seen the word, then it had
gone. Probably he had seen it, for the book, of all things, was a
Spanish history of British India. The bed was disorderly and covered
with footmarks, even what appeared bloodstains, though this bed too
seemed akin to a student’s cot. He noticed by it an almost empty bottle
of mescal. But the floor was red flagstone and somehow its cold strong
logic cancelled the horror: he finished the bottle. The girl who had
been shutting the double doors while addressing him in some strange
language, possibly Zapotecan, came toward him and he saw she was young
and pretty. Lightning silhouetted against the window a face, for a
moment curiously like Yvonne’s. “Quiere María,” she volunteered again,
and flinging her arms round his neck, drew him down to the bed. Her body
was Yvonne’s too, her legs, her breasts, her pounding passionate heart,
electricity crackled under his fingers running over her, though the
sentimental illusion was going, it was sinking into a sea, as though it
had not been there, it had become the sea, a desolate horizon with one
huge black sailing ship, hull down, sweeping into the sunset; or her
body was nothing, an abstraction merely, a calamity, a fiendish
apparatus for calamitous sickening sensation; it was disaster, it was
the horror of waking up in the morning in Oaxaca, his body fully
clothed, at half past three every morning after Yvonne had gone; Oaxaca,
and the nightly escape from the sleeping Hotel Francia, where Yvonne and
he had once been happy, from the cheap room giving on the balcony high
up, to El Infierno, that other Farolito, of trying to find the bottle in
the dark, and failing, the vulture sitting in the washbasin; his steps,
noiseless, dead silence outside his hotel room, too soon for the
terrible sounds of squealing and slaughter in the kitchen below—of
going down the carpeted stairs to the huge dark well of the deserted
dining room once the patio, sinking into the soft disaster of the
carpet, his feet sinking into heartbreak when he reached the stairs,
still not sure he wasn’t on the landing—and the stab of panic and
self-disgust when he thought of the cold shower bath back on the left,
used only once before, but that was enough—and the silent final
trembling approach, respectable, his steps sinking into calamity (and it
was this calamity he now, with María, penetrated, the only thing alive
in him now this burning boiling crucified evil organ—God is it possible
to suffer more than this, out of this suffering something must be born,
and what would be born was his own death) for ah, how alike are the
groans of love to those of the dying, how alike, those of love, to those
of the dying—and his steps sinking, into his tremor, the sickening cold
tremor, and into the dark well of the dining room, with round the corner
one dim light hovering above the desk, and the clock—too early—and the
letters unwritten, powerless to write, and the calendar saying
eternally, powerlessly, their wedding anniversary, and the manager’s
nephew asleep on the couch, waiting up to meet the early train from
Mexico City; the darkness that murmured and was palpable, the cold
aching loneliness in the high sounding dining room, stiff with the dead
white grey folded napkins, the weight of suffering and conscience
greater (it seemed) than that borne by any man who had survived—the
thirst that was not thirst, but itself heartbreak, and lust, was death,
death, and death again and death the waiting in the cold hotel dining
room, half whispering to himself, waiting, since El Infierno, that other
Farolito, did not open till four in the morning and one could scarcely
wait outside—(and this calamity he was now penetrating, it was
calamity, the calamity of his own life, the very essence of it he now
penetrated, was penetrating, penetrated)—waiting for the Infierno whose
one lamp of hope would soon be glowing beyond the dark open sewers, and
on the table, in the hotel dining room, difficult to distinguish, a
carafe of water,—trembling, trembling, carrying the carafe of water to
his lips, but not far enough, it was too heavy, like his burden of
sorrow—“_you cannot drink of it_”—he could only moisten his lips, and
then—it must have been Jesus who sent me this, it was only He who was
following me after all—the bottle of red French wine from Salina Cruz
still standing there on the table set for breakfast, marked with someone
else’s room number, uncorked with difficulty and (watching to see the
nephew wasn’t watching) holding it with both hands, and letting the
blessed ichor trickle down his throat, just a little, for after all one
was an Englishman, and still sporting, and then subsiding on the couch
too—his heart a cold ache warm to one side—into a cold shivering shell
of palpitating loneliness—yet feeling the wine slightly more, as if
one’s chest were being filled with boiling ice now, or there were a bar
of red hot iron across one’s chest, but cold in its effect, for the
conscience that rages underneath anew and is bursting one’s heart burns
so fiercely with the fires of hell a bar of red hot iron is as a mere
chill to it—and the clock ticking forward, with his heart beating now
like a snow-muffled drum, ticking, shaking, time shaking and ticking
toward El Infierno, then—the escape!—drawing the blanket he had
secretly brought down from the hotel room over his head, creeping out
past the manager’s nephew—the escape!—past the hotel desk, not daring
to look for mail—“it is this silence that frightens me”—(can it be
there? Is this me? Alas, self-pitying miserable wretch, you old rascal)
past—the escape!—the Indian night watchman sleeping on the floor in
the doorway, and like an Indian himself now, clutching the few pesos he
had left, out into the cold walled cobbled city, past—the escape
through the secret passage!—the open sewers in the mean streets, the
few lone dim streetlamps, into the night, into the miracle that the
coffins of houses, the landmarks were still there, the escape down the
poor broken sidewalks, groaning, groaning—and how alike are the groans
of love, to those of the dying, how alike, those of love, to those of
the dying!—and the houses so still, so cold, before dawn, till he saw,
rounding the corner, safe, the one lamp of El Infierno glowing, that was
so like the Farolito, then, surprised once more he could ever have
reached it, standing inside the place with his back to the wall, and his
blanket still over his head, talking to the beggars, the early workers,
the dirty prostitutes, the pimps, the debris and detritus of the streets
and the bottom of the earth, but who were yet so much higher than he,
drinking just as he had drunk here in the Farolito, and telling lies,
lying—the escape, still the escape!—until the lilac-shaded dawn that
should have brought death, and he should have died now too; what have I
done?

The Consul’s eyes focussed a calendar behind the bed. He had reached his
crisis at last, a crisis without possession, almost without pleasure
finally, and what he saw might have been, no, he was sure it was, a
picture of Canada. Under a brilliant full moon a stag stood by a river
down which a man and a woman were paddling a birch bark canoe. This
calendar was set to the future, for next month, December: where would he
be then? In the dim blue light he even made out the names of the Saints
for each December day, printed by the numerals: Santa Natalia, Santa
Bibiana, S. Francisco Xavier, Santa Sabas, S. Nicolas de Beri, S.
Ambrosio: thunder blew the door open, the face of M. Laruelle faded in
the door.

In the mingitorio a stench like mercaptan clapped yellow hands on his
face and now, from the urinal walls, uninvited, he heard his voices
again, hissing and shrieking and yammering at him: “Now you’ve done it,
now you’ve really done it, Geoffrey Firmin! Even we can help you no
longer . . . Just the same you might as well make the most of it now,
the night’s still young . . .”

“You like María, you like?” A man’s voice—that of the chuckler, he
recognised—came from the gloom and the Consul, his knees trembling,
gazed round him: all he saw at first were slashed advertisements on the
slimy feebly lit walls: _Clínica Dr. Vigil_, _Enfermedades Secretas de
Ambos Sexos_, _Vías Urinarias_, _Trastornos Sexuales_, _Debilidad
Sexual_, _Derrames Nocturnos_, _Emisiones Prematuras_, _Espermatorrea_,
_Impotencia_. 666. His versatile companion of this morning and last
night might have been informing him ironically all was not yet
lost—unfortunately by now he would be well on his way to Guanajuato. He
distinguished an incredibly filthy man sitting hunched in the corner on
a lavatory seat, so short his trousered feet didn’t reach the littered,
befouled floor. “You like María?” this man croaked again. “I send. Me
amigo.” He pharted. “Me fliend Englisman all tine, all tine.” “Qué
hora?” asked the Consul, shivering, noticing, in the runnel, a dead
scorpion; a sparkle of phosphorescence and it had gone, or had never
been there. “What’s the time?” “Sick,” answered the man. “No, it er ah
half past sick by the cock.” “You mean half past six by the clock.” “Sí
señor. Half past sick by the cock.”

666.—The pricked peetroot, pickled betroot; the Consul, arranging his
dress, laughed grimly at the pimp’s reply—or was he some sort of stool
pigeon, in the strictest sense of that term? And who was it had said
earlier, half past tree by the cock? How had the man known he was
English, he wondered, taking his laughter back through the glass-paned
rooms, out through the filling bar to the door again—perhaps he worked
for the Unión Militar, squatting at stool all day in the Seguridad jakes
eavesdropping on the prisoners’ conversation, while pimping was just a
sideline. He might have found out from him about María, whether she
was—but he didn’t want to know. He’d been right about the time though.
The clock on the Comisaría de Policía, annular, imperfectly luminous,
said, as if it had just moved forward with a jerk, a little after
six-thirty, and the Consul corrected his watch, which was slow. It was
now quite dark. Yet the same ragged platoon still seemed to be marching
across the square. The corporal was no longer writing, however. Outside
the prison stood a single motionless sentinel. The archway behind him
was suddenly swept by wild light. Beyond, by the cells, the shadow of a
policeman’s lantern was swinging against the wall. The evening was
filled by odd noises, like those of sleep. The roll of a drum somewhere
was a revolution, a cry down the street someone being murdered, brakes
grinding far away a soul in pain. The plucked chords of a guitar hung
over his head. A bell clanged frantically in the distance. Lightning
twitched. Half past sick by the cock . . . In British Columbia, in
Canada, on cold Pineaus Lake, where his island had long since become a
wilderness of laurel and Indian Pipe, of wild strawberry and Oregon
holly, he remembered the strange Indian belief prevailing that a cock
would crow over a drowned body. How dread the validation that silver
February evening long ago when, as acting Lithuanian Consul to Vernon,
he had accompanied the search party in the boat, and the bored rooster
had roused himself to crow shrilly seven times! The dynamite charges had
apparently disturbed nothing, they were sombrely rowing for shore
through the cloudy twilight, when suddenly, protruding from the water,
they had seen what looked at first like a glove—the hand of the drowned
Lithuanian. British Columbia, the genteel Siberia, that was neither
genteel nor a Siberia, but an undiscovered, perhaps an undiscoverable
Paradise, that might have been a solution, to return there, to build, if
not on his island, somewhere there, a new life with Yvonne. Why hadn’t
he thought of it before? Or why hadn’t she? Or had that been what she
was getting at this afternoon, and which had half communicated itself to
his mind? My little grey home in the west. Now it seemed to him he had
often thought of it before, in this precise spot where he was standing.
But now too at least this much was clear. He couldn’t go back to Yvonne
if he wanted to. The hope of any new life together, even were it
miraculously offered again, could scarcely survive in the arid air of an
estranged postponement to which it must now, on top of everything else,
be submitted for brutal hygienic reasons alone. True, those reasons were
without quite secure basis as yet, but for another purpose that eluded
him they had to remain unassailable. All solutions now came up against
their great Chinese wall, forgiveness among them. He laughed once more,
feeling a strange release, almost a sense of attainment. His mind was
clear. Physically he seemed better too. It was as if, out of an ultimate
contamination he had derived strength. He felt free to devour what
remained of his life in peace. At the same time a certain gruesome
gaiety was creeping into this mood, and, in an extraordinary way, a
certain light-headed mischievousness. He was aware of a desire at once
for complete glutted oblivion and for an innocent youthful fling.
“Alas,” a voice seemed to be saying also in his ear, “my poor little
child, you do not feel any of these things really, only lost, only
homeless.”

He started. In front of him tied to a small tree he hadn’t noticed,
though it was right opposite the cantina on the other side of the path,
stood a horse cropping the lush grass. Something familiar about the
beast made him walk over. Yes—exactly as he thought. He could mistake
by now neither the number seven branded on the rump nor the leather
saddle charactered in that fashion. It was the Indian’s horse, the horse
of the man he’d first seen to-day riding it singing into the sunlit
world, then abandoned, left dying by the roadside. He patted the animal
which twitched its ears and went on cropping imperturbably—perhaps not
so imperturbably; at a rumble of thunder the horse, whose saddlebags he
noticed had been mysteriously restored, whinneyed uneasily, shaking all
over. When just as mysteriously those saddlebags no longer chinked.
Unbidden, an explanation of this afternoon’s events came to the Consul.
Hadn’t it turned out to be a policeman into which all those abominations
he’d observed a little while since had melted, a policeman leading a
horse in this direction? Why should not that horse be this horse? It had
been those vigilante hombres who’d turned up on the road this afternoon,
and here, in Parián, as he’d told Hugh, was their headquarters. How Hugh
would relish this, could he be here! The police—ah, the fearful
police—or rather not the real police, he corrected himself, but those
Unión Militar fellows were at the bottom, in an insanely complicated
manner but still at the bottom, of the whole business. He felt suddenly
sure of this. As if out of some correspondence between the subnormal
world itself and the abnormally suspicious delirious one within him the
truth had sprung—sprung like a shadow however, which—

“Qué hacéis aquí?”

“Nada,” he said, and smiled at the man resembling a Mexican sergeant of
police who had snatched the bridle from his hands. “Nothing. Veo que la
tierra anda; estoy esperando que pase mi casa por aquí para meterme en
ella,” he brilliantly managed. The brasswork on the amazed policeman’s
uniform buckles caught the light from the doorway of the Farolito, then,
as he turned, the leather on his sam-browne caught it, so that it was
glossy as a plantain leaf, and lastly his boots, which shone like dull
silver. The Consul laughed: just to glance at him was to feel that
mankind was on the point of being saved immediately. He repeated the
good Mexican joke, not quite right, in English, patting the policeman,
whose jaw had dropped in bewilderment and who was eyeing him blankly, on
the arm. “I learn that the world goes round so I am waiting here for my
house to pass by.” He held out his hand. “Amigo,” he said.

The policeman grunted, brushing the Consul’s hand off. Then, giving him
quick suspicious glances over his shoulder, he fastened the horse more
securely to the tree. In those swift glances there was something serious
indeed, the Consul was aware, something that bade him escape at his
peril. Slightly hurt, he now remembered, too, the look Diosdado had
given him. But the Consul felt neither serious nor like escaping. Nor
did his feelings change as he found himself impelled by the policeman
from behind toward the cantina, beyond which, by lightning, the east
briefly appeared, in onrush, a towering thunderhead. Preceding him
through the door, it actually struck the Consul that the sergeant was
trying to be polite. He stood aside quite nimbly, bidding, with a
gesture, the other go first. “Mi amigo,” he repeated. The policeman
shoved him in and they made for one end of the bar which was empty.

“Americano, eh?” this policeman said now, firmly. “Wait, aquí.
Comprende, señor?” He went behind the bar to speak with Diosdado.

The Consul unsuccessfully tried to intrude, on his conduct’s behalf, a
cordial note of explanation for the Elephant, who appeared grim as if
he’d just murdered another of his wives to cure her neurasthenia.
Meantime, A Few Fleas, temporarily otiose, and with surprising charity,
slid him a mescal along the counter. People were looking at him again.
Then the policeman confronted him from the other side of the bar. “They
say there ees trouble about you no pay,” he said, “you no pay
for—ah—Mehican whisky. You no pay for Mehican girl. You no have money,
hey?”

“Zicker,” said the Consul, whose Spanish, in spite of a temporary
insurgence, he knew virtually gone. “Sí. Yes. Mucho dinero,” he added,
placing a peso on the counter for A Few Fleas. He saw that the policeman
was a heavy-necked handsome man with a black gritty moustache, flashing
teeth, and a rather consciously swashbuckling manner. He was joined at
this moment by a tall slim man in well-cut American tweeds with a hard
sombre face and long beautiful hands. Glancing periodically at the
Consul he spoke in undertones with Diosdado and the policeman. This man,
who looked pure-bred Castilian, seemed familiar and the Consul wondered
where he had seen him before. The policeman, disengaging himself from
him, leaned over with his elbows on the bar, talking to the Consul. “You
no have money, hey, and now you steal my horse.” He winked at the
Godgiven. “What for you ah run away with Mehican caballo? for to no pay
Mehican money—hey?”

The Consul stared at him. “No. Decidedly not. Of course I wasn’t going
to steal your horse. I was merely looking at it, admiring it.”

“What for you want to look at Mehican caballo? For why?” The policeman
laughed suddenly, with real merriment, slapping his thighs—obviously he
was a good fellow and the Consul, feeling the ice was broken, laughed
too. But the policeman obviously enough was also quite drunk, so it was
difficult to gauge the quality of this laughter. While the faces of both
Diosdado and the man in tweeds remained black and stern. “You make a the
map of the Spain,” the policeman persisted, controlling his laughter
finally. “You know ah Spain?”

“Comment non,” the Consul said. So Diosdado had told him about the map,
yet surely that was an innocently sad enough thing to have done. “Oui.
Es muy asombrosa.” No, this wasn’t Pernambuco: definitely he ought not
to speak Portuguese. “Jawohl. Correcto, señor,” he finished. “Yes, I
know Spain.”

“You make a the map of the Spain? You Bolsheviki prick? You member of
the Brigade Internationale and stir up trouble?”

“No,” answered the Consul firmly, decently, but now somewhat agitated.
“Absolutamente no.”

“Ab-so-lut-a-mente hey?” The policeman, with another wink at Diosdado,
imitated the Consul’s manner. He came round to the correct side of the
bar again, bringing the sombre man with him who didn’t say a word or
drink but merely stood there, looking stern, as did the Elephant,
opposite them now, angrily drying glasses. “All,” he drawled, and
“right!” the policeman added with tremendous emphasis, slapping the
Consul on the back. “All right. Come on my friend—” he invited him.
“Drink. Drink a all you ah want to have. We have been looking for you,”
he went on in a loud, half-bantering, drunken tone. “You have murdered a
man and escaped through seven states. We want to found out about you. We
have founded out—it is right?—you desert your ship at Vera Cruz? You
say you have money. How much money a you have got?”

The Consul took out a crumpled note and replaced it in his pocket.
“Fifty pesos, hey. Perhaps that not enough money. What are you for?
Inglés? Español? Americano? Aleman? Russish? You come a from the
you-are-essy-essy? What for are you do?”

“I no spikker the English—hey, what’s your names?” someone else asked
him loudly at his elbow, and the Consul turned to see another policeman
dressed much like the first, only shorter, heavy-jowled, with little
cruel eyes in an ashen pulpy clean-shaven face. Though he carried
sidearms both his trigger finger and his right thumb were missing. As he
spoke he made an obscene rolling movement of his hips and winked at the
first policeman and at Diosdado though avoiding the eyes of the man in
tweeds. “Progresión al culo,” he added, for no reason the Consul knew
of, still rolling his hips.

“He is the Chief of Municipality,” the first policeman explained
heartily to the Consul. “This man want to know ah your name. Cómo se
llama?”

“Yes, what’s your names,” shouted the second policeman, who had taken a
drink from the bar, but not looking at the Consul and still rolling his
hips.

“Trotsky,” gibed someone from the far end of the counter, and the
Consul, beard-conscious, flushed.

“Blackstone,” he answered gravely, and indeed, he asked himself,
accepting another mescal, had he not and with a vengeance come to live
among the Indians? The only trouble was one was very much afraid these
particular Indians might turn out to be people with ideas too. “William
Blackstone.”

“Why ah are you?” shouted the fat policeman, whose own name was
something like Zuzugoitea, “What ah are you for?” And he repeated the
catechism of the first policeman, whom he seemed to imitate in
everything. “Inglés? Aleman?”

The Consul shook his head. “No. Just William Blackstone.”

“You are Juden?” the first policeman demanded.

“No. Just Blackstone,” the Consul repeated, shaking his head. “William
Blackstone. Jews are seldom very borracho.”

“You are—ah—a borracho, hey,” the first policeman said, and everyone
laughed—several others, his henchmen evidently, had joined them though
the Consul couldn’t distinguish them clearly—save the inflexible
indifferent man in tweeds. “He is the Chief of Gardens,” the first
policeman explained, continuing; “That man is Jefe de Jardineros.” And
there was a certain awe in his tone. “I am chief too, I am Chief of
Rostrums,” he added, but almost reflectively, as if he meant “I am only
Chief of Rostrums.”

“And I—” began the Consul.

“Am perfecta_men_te borracho,” finished the first policeman, and
everyone roared again save the Jefe de Jardineros.

“Y yo—” repeated the Consul, but what was he saying? And who were these
people, really? Chief of what Rostrums, Chief of what Municipality,
above all, Chief of what Gardens? Surely this silent man in tweeds,
sinister too, though apparently the only one unarmed in the group,
wasn’t the one responsible for all those little public gardens. Albeit
the Consul was prompted by a shadowy prescience he already had
concerning the claimants to these titular pretensions. They were
associated in his mind with the Inspector General of the State and also
as he had told Hugh with the Unión Militar. Doubtless he’d seen them
here before in one of the rooms or at the bar, but certainly never at
such close quarters as this. However so many questions he was unable to
answer were being showered upon him by so many different people this
significance was almost forgotten. He gathered, though, that the
respected Chief of Gardens, to whom at this moment he sent a mute appeal
for help, might be even “higher” than the Inspector General himself. The
appeal was answered by a blacker look than ever: at the same time the
Consul knew where he’d seen him before; the Chief of Gardens might have
been the image of himself when, lean, bronzed, serious, beardless, and
at the crossroads of his career, he had assumed the Vice Consulship in
Granada. Innumerable tequilas and mescals were being brought and the
Consul drank everything in sight without regard for ownership. “It’s not
enough to say they were at the El Amor de los Amores together,” he heard
himself repeating—it must have been in answer to some insistent demand
for the story of his afternoon, though why it should be made at all he
didn’t know—“What matters is how the thing happened. Was the
peon—perhaps he wasn’t quite a peon—drunk? Or did he fall from his
horse? Perhaps the thief just recognized a boon companion who owed him a
drink or two—”

Thunder growled outside the Farolito. He sat down. It was an order.
Everything was growing very chaotic. The bar was now nearly full. Some
of the drinkers had come from the graveyards, Indians in loose-fitting
clothes. There were dilapidated soldiers with among them here and there
a more smartly dressed officer. He distinguished in the glass rooms
bugles and green lariats moving. Several dancers had entered dressed in
long black cloaks streaked with luminous paint to represent skeletons.
The Chief of Municipality was standing behind him now. The Chief of
Rostrums was standing too, talking on his right with the Jefe de
Jardineros, whose name, the Consul had discovered, was Fructuoso
Sanabria. “Hullo, qué tal?” asked the Consul. Someone was sitting next
him with his back half turned who also seemed familiar. He looked like a
poet, some friend of his college days. Fair hair fell over his fine
forehead. The Consul offered him a drink which this young man not only
refused, in Spanish, but rose to refuse, making a gesture with his hand
of pushing the Consul away, then moving, with angry half-averted face,
to the far end of the bar. The Consul was hurt. Again he sent a mute
appeal for help to the Chief of Gardens: he was answered by an
implacable, an almost final look. For the first time the Consul scented
the tangibility of his danger. He knew Sanabria and the first policemen
were discussing him with the utmost hostility, deciding what to do with
him. Then he saw they were trying to catch the Chief of Municipality’s
attention. They were breasting their way, just the two of them, behind
the bar again to a telephone he hadn’t noticed, and the curious thing
about this telephone was that it seemed to be working properly. The
Chief of Rostrums did the talking: Sanabria stood by grimly, apparently
giving instructions. They were taking their time, and realising the call
would be about him, whatever its nature, the Consul, with a slow burning
pain of apprehension, felt again how lonely he was, that all around him
in spite of the crowd, the uproar, slightly muted at a gesture from
Sanabria, stretched a solitude like the wilderness of grey heaving
Atlantic conjured to his eyes a little while since with María, only this
time no sail was in sight. The mood of mischievousness and release had
vanished completely. He knew he’d half hoped all along Yvonne would come
to rescue him, knew, now, it was too late, she would not come. Ah, if
Yvonne, if only as a daughter, who would understand and comfort him,
could only be at his side now! Even if but to lead him by the hand,
drunkenly homeward through the stone fields, the forests—not
interfering of course with his occasional pulls at the bottle, and ah,
those burning draughts in loneliness, he would miss them, wherever he
was going, they were perhaps the happiest things his life had known!—as
he had seen the Indian children lead their fathers home on Sundays.
Instantly, consciously, he forgot Yvonne again. It ran in his head he
could perhaps leave the Farolito at this moment by himself, unnoticed
and without difficulty, for the Chief of Municipality was still deep in
conversation, while the backs of the two other policemen at the
telephone were turned, yet he made no move. Instead, leaning his elbows
on the bar, he buried his face in his hands.

He saw again in his mind’s eye that extraordinary picture on Laruelle’s
wall, Los Borrachones, only now it took on a somewhat different aspect.
Mightn’t it have another meaning, that picture, unintentional as its
humour, beyond the symbolically obvious? He saw those people like
spirits appearing to grow more free, more separate, their distinctive
noble faces more distinctive, more noble, the higher they ascended into
the light; those florid people resembling huddled fiends, becoming more
like each other, more joined together, more as one fiend, the further
down they hurled into the darkness. Perhaps all this wasn’t so
ludicrous. When he had striven upwards, as at the beginning with Yvonne,
had not the “features” of life seemed to grow more clear, more animated,
friends and enemies more identifiable, special problems, scenes, and
with them the sense of his own reality, more _separate_ from himself?
And had it not turned out that the further down he sank, the more those
features had tended to dissemble, to cloy and clutter, to become finally
little better than ghastly caricatures of his dissimulating inner and
outer self, or of his struggle, if struggle there were still? Yes, but
had he desired it, willed it, the very material world, illusory though
that was, might have been a confederate, pointing the wise way. Here
would have been no devolving through failing unreal voices and forms of
dissolution that became more and more like one voice to a death more
dead than death itself, but an infinite widening, an infinite evolving
and extension of boundaries, in which the spirit was an entity, perfect
and whole: ah, who knows why man, however beset his chance by lies, has
been offered love? Yet it had to be faced, down, down he had gone, down
till—it was not the bottom even now, he realized. It was not the end
quite yet. It was as if his fall had been broken by a narrow ledge, a
ledge from which he could neither climb up nor down, on which he lay
bloody and half stunned, while far below him the abyss yawned, waiting.
And on it as he lay he was surrounded in delirium by these phantoms of
himself, the policemen, Fructuoso Sanabria, that other man who looked
like a poet, the luminous skeletons, even the rabbit in the corner and
the ash and sputum on the filthy floor—did not each correspond, in a
way he couldn’t understand yet obscurely recognized, to some faction of
his being? And he saw dimly too how Yvonne’s arrival, the snake in the
garden, his quarrel with Laruelle and later with Hugh and Yvonne, the
infernal machine, the encounter with Señora Gregorio, the finding of the
letters, and much beside, how all the events of the day indeed had been
as indifferent tufts of grass he had half-heartedly clutched at or
stones loosed on his downward flight, which were still showering on him
from above. The Consul produced his blue package of cigarettes with the
wings on them: Alas! He raised his head again; no, he was where he was,
there was nowhere to fly to. And it was as if a black dog had settled on
his back, pressing him to his seat.

The Chief of Gardens and the Chief of Rostrums were still waiting by the
telephone, perhaps for the right number. Probably they would be calling
the Inspector General: but what if they’d forgotten him, the
Consul—what if they weren’t phoning about him at all? He remembered his
dark glasses he had removed to read Yvonne’s letters and, some fatuous
notion of disguise crossing his mind, put them on. Behind him the Chief
of Municipality was still engrossed; now once more, he could go. With
the aid of his dark glasses, what could be simpler? He could go—only he
needed another drink; one for the road. Moreover he realised he was
wedged in by a solid mass of people and that, to make matters worse, a
man sitting at the bar next him wearing a dirty sombrero on the back of
his head and a cartridge belt hanging low down his trousers had clutched
him by the arm affectionately; it was the pimp, the stool pigeon, of the
mingitorio. Hunched in almost precisely the same posture as before, he
had apparently been talking to him for the last five minutes.

“My friend for my,” he was babbling. “All dees men nothing for you, or
for me. All dees men—nothing for you, or for me! All dees men, son of a
bitch . . . Sure, you Englisman!” He clutched the Consul’s arm more
firmly. “All my! Mexican men: all tine Englishman, my friend, Mexican! I
don’t care son of a bitch American: no good for you, or for me, my
Mexican all tine, all tine, all tine—eh?—”

The Consul withdrew his arm but was immediately clutched on his left by
a man of uncertain nationality, crosseyed with drink, who resembled a
sailor. “You limey,” he stated flatly, swivelled round his stool. “I’m
from the county of Pope,” yelled this unknown man, very slowly, putting
his arm now through the Consul’s. “What do you think? Mozart was the man
what writ the Bible. You’re here to the _off_ down there. Man here, on
the earth, shall be equal. And let there be tranquillity. Tranquillity
means peace. Peace on earth, of all men—”

The Consul freed himself: the pimp clutched him again. Almost for
succour, he gazed about him. The Chief of Municipality was still
engaged. In the bar the Chief of Rostrums was telephoning once more;
Sanabria stood at his elbow directing. Squeezed against the pimp’s chair
another man the Consul took for American, who was continually squinting
over his shoulder as though expecting somebody, was saying to no one in
especial: “Winchester! Hell, that’s something else. Don’t tell me.
Righto! The Black Swan is in Winchester. They captured me on the German
side of the camp and at the same side of the place where they captured
me is a girls’ school. A girl teacher. She gave it to me. And you can
take it. And you can have it.”

“Ah,” said the pimp, still clutching the Consul. He was speaking across
him, half to the sailor. “My friend—was a matter for you? My looking
for you all tine. My England man, all tine, all tine, sure, sure. Excu.
This man telling me my friend for you all tine. You like he?—This man
very much money. This man—right or wrong, sure; Mexican is my friend or
Inglés. American goddamn son of a bitch for you or for me, or for any
_tine_.”

The Consul was drinking with these macabre people inextricably. When he
gazed round on this occasion he met, cognizant of him, the Chief of
Municipality’s hard little cruel eyes. He gave up trying to understand
what the illiterate sailor, who seemed an even obscurer fellow than the
stool pigeon, was talking about. He consulted his watch: still only a
quarter to seven. Time was circumfluent again too, mescal-drugged.
Feeling the eyes of Señor Zuzugoitea still boring into his neck he
produced once more, importantly, defensively, Yvonne’s letters. With his
dark glasses on they appeared for some reason clearer.

“And the _off_ of man here what there will be let the lord be with us
all the time,” bellowed the sailor, “there’s my religion spoke in those
few words. Mozart was the man that writ the Bible. Mozart wrote the old
testimony. Stay by that and you’ll be all right. Mozart was a lawyer.”

—“Without you I am cast out, severed. I am an outcast from myself, a
shadow”—

“Weber’s my name. They captured me in Flanders. You would doubt me more
or less. But if they captured me now!—When Alabama came through, we
came through with heels flying. We ask nobody no questions because down
there we don’t run. Christ, if you want ’em go ahead and take ’em. But
if you want Alabama, that bunch.” The Consul looked up; the man, Weber,
was singing. “_I’m just a country b-hoy._ I don’t know a damn thing.” He
saluted his reflection in the mirror. “Soldat de la Légion Etrangère.”

—“There I met some people I must tell you about, for perhaps the
thought of these people held before us like a prayer for absolution may
strengthen us once more to nourish the flame which can never go out, but
burns now so fearfully low.”

—“Yes sir. Mozart was a lawyer. And don’t dispute me no more. Here to
the off of God. I would dispute my incomprehensible stuff!”

“—de la Légion Etrangère. Vous n’avez pas de nation. La France est
votre mère. Thirty miles out of Tangier, banging in pretty well. Captain
Dupont’s orderly . . . He was a son of a bitch from Texas. Never will
tell his name. It was Fort Adamant.”

“—_Mar Cantábrico!_—”

—“You are one born to walk in the light. Plunging your head out of the
white sky you flounder in an alien element. You think you are lost, but
it is not so, for the spirits of light will help you and bear you up in
spite of yourself and beyond all opposition you may offer. Do I sound
mad? I sometimes think I am. Seize the immense potential strength you
fight, which is within your body and ever so much more strongly within
your soul, restore to me the sanity that left when you forgot me, when
you sent me away, when you turned your footsteps towards a different
path, a stranger route which you have trod apart . . .”

“He turreted out this underground place here. Fifth squadron of the
French Foreign Legion. They give ’em the spreadeagle. Soldat de la
Légion Etrangère.” Weber saluted himself in the mirror again and clicked
his heels. “The sun parches the lips and they crack. Oh Christ, it’s a
shame: the horses all go away kicking in the dust. I wouldn’t have it.
They plugged ’em too.”

—“I am perhaps God’s loneliest mortal. I do not have the companionship
in drink you find, however unsatisfactory. My wretchedness is locked up
within me. You used to cry to me to help you. The plea I send to you is
far more desperate. Help me, yes, save me, from all that is enveloping,
threatening, trembling, and ready to pour over my head.”

“—man what wrote the Bible. You got to study deep down to know that
Mozart writ the Bible. But I’ll tell you, you can’t think with me. I’ve
got an awful mind,” the sailor was telling the Consul. “And I hope you
the same. I hope you will have good. Only to hell on me,” he added, and
suddenly despairing, this sailor rose and reeled out.

“American no good for me no. American no good for Mexican. These donkey,
these man,” the pimp said contemplatively, staring after him, and then
at the legionnaire, who was examining a pistol that lay in his palm like
a bright jewel. “All my, Mexican man. All tine England man, my friend
Mexican.” He summoned A Few Fleas and, ordering more drinks, indicated
the Consul would pay. “I don’t care son of a bitch American no good for
you, or for me. My Mexican, all tine, all tine, all _tine_, eh?” he
declared.

“Quiere usted la salvación de Méjico?” suddenly asked a radio from
somewhere behind the bar. “Quiere usted que Cristo sea nuestro Rey?” and
the Consul saw that the Chief of Rostrums had stopped phoning but was
still standing in the same place with the Chief of Gardens.

“No.”

—“Geoffrey, why don’t you answer me? I can only believe that my letters
have not reached you. I have put aside all my pride to beg your
forgiveness, to offer you mine. I cannot, I will not believe that you
have ceased to love me, have forgotten me. Or can it be that you have
some misguided idea that I am better off without you, that you are
sacrificing yourself that I may find happiness with someone else?
Darling, sweetheart, don’t you realise that is impossible? We can give
each other so much more than most people can, we can marry again, we can
build forward . . .”

—“You are my friend for all tine. Me pay for you and for me and for
this man. This man is friend for me and for this man,” and the pimp
slapped the Consul, at this moment taking a long drink, calamitously on
the back. “Want he?”

—“And if you no longer love me and do not wish me to come back to you,
will you not write and tell me so? It is the silence that is killing me,
the suspense that reaches out of that silence and possesses my strength
and my spirit. Write and tell me that your life is the one you want,
that you are gay, or are wretched, or are content or restless. If you
have lost the feel of me write of the weather, or the people we know,
the streets you walk in, the altitude.—Where are you, Geoffrey? I do
not even know where you are. Oh, it is all too cruel. Where did we go, I
wonder? In what far place do we still walk, hand in hand?”—

The voice of the stool pigeon now became clear, rising above the
clamour—the Babel, he thought, the confusion of tongues, remembering
again as he distinguished the sailor’s remote, returning voice, the trip
to Cholula: “You telling me or am I telling you? Japan no good for U.
S., for America . . . No bueno. Mehican, diez y ocho. All tine Mehican
gone in war for U. S. A. Sure, sure, yes . . . Give me cigarette for me.
Give me match for my. My Mehican war gone for England all tine—”

—“Where are you, Geoffrey? If I only knew where you were, if I only
knew that you wanted me, you know I would have long since been with you.
For my life is irrevocably and forever bound to yours. Never think that
by releasing me you will be free. You would only condemn us to an
ultimate hell on earth. You would only free something else to destroy us
both. I am frightened, Geoffrey. Why do you not tell me what has
happened? What do you need? And my God, what do you wait for? What
release can be compared to the release of love? My thighs ache to
embrace you. The emptiness of my body is the famished need of you. My
tongue is dry in my mouth for the want of _our_ speech. If you let
anything happen to yourself you will be harming my flesh and mind. I am
in your hands now. Save—”

“Mexican works, England works, Mexican works, sure, French works. Why
speak English? Mine Mexican. Mexican United States he sees negros—de
comprende—Detroit, Houston, Dallas . . .”

“Quiere usted la salvación de Méjico? Quiere usted que Cristo sea
nuestro Rey?”

“No.”

The Consul looked up, pocketing his letters. Someone near him was
playing a fiddle loudly. A patriarchal toothless old Mexican with a thin
wiry beard, encouraged ironically from behind by the Chief of
Municipality, was sawing away almost in his ear at the Star Spangled
Banner. But he was also saying something to him privately. “Americano?
This bad place for you. Deese hombres, malos. Cacos. Bad people here.
Brutos. No bueno for anyone. Comprendo. I am a potter,” he pursued
urgently, his face close to the Consul’s. “I take you to my home. I ah
wait outside.” The old man, still playing wildly though rather out of
tune, had gone, way was being made for him through the crowd, but his
place, somehow between the Consul and the pimp, had been taken by an old
woman who, though respectably enough dressed with a fine rebozo thrown
over her shoulders, was behaving in a distressing fashion, plunging her
hand restlessly into the Consul’s pocket, which he as restlessly
removed, thinking she wanted to rob him. Then he realised she too wanted
to help. “No good for you,” she whispered. “Bad place. Muy malo. These
man no friend of Mexican people.” She nodded toward the bar, in which
the Chief of Rostrums and Sanabria still stood. “They no policía. They
diablos. Murderers. He kill ten old men. He kill twenty viejos.” She
peered behind her nervously, to see if the Chief of Municipality was
watching her, then took from her shawl a clockwork skeleton. She set
this on the counter before A Few Fleas, who was watching intently,
munching a marzipan coffin. “Vámonos,” she muttered to the Consul, as
the skeleton, set in motion, jigged on the bar, to collapse flaccidly.
But the Consul only raised his glass. “Gracias, buena amiga,” he said,
without expression. Then the old woman had gone. Meantime the
conversation about him had grown even more foolish and intemperate. The
pimp was pawing at the Consul from the other side, where the sailor had
been. Diosdado was serving ochas, raw alcohol in steaming herb tea:
there was the pungent smell too, from the glass rooms, of marijuana.
“All deese men and women telling me these men my friend for you. Ah me
gusta gusta gusta . . . You like me like? I pay for dis man all _tine_,”
the pimp rebuked the legionnaire, who was on the point of offering the
Consul a drink. “My friend of England man! My for Mexican all! American
no good for me no. American no good for Mexican. These donkey, these
man. These donkey. No savee nada. Me pay for all you drinkee. You no
American. You England. O.K. Life for your pipe?”

“No gracias,” the Consul said lighting it himself and looking meaningly
at Diosdado, from whose shirt pocket his other pipe was protruding
again, “I happen to be American, and I’m getting rather bored by your
insults.”

“Quiere usted la salvación de Méjico? Quiere usted que Cristo sea
nuestro Rey?”

“No.”

“These donkey. Goddamn son of a bitch for my.”

“One, two, tree, four, five, twelve, sixee, seven—it’s a long, longy,
longy, longy—way to Tipperaire.”

“Noch ein habanero—”

“—Bolshevisten—”

“Buenas tardes, señores,” the Consul greeted the Chief of Gardens and
the Chief of Rostrums returning from the phone.

They were standing beside him. Soon, preposterous things were being said
between them again without adequate reason: answers, it seemed to him,
given by him to questions that while they had perhaps not been asked,
nevertheless hung in the air. And as for some answers others gave, when
he turned round, no one was there. Lingeringly, the bar was emptying for
la comida; yet a handful of mysterious strangers had already entered to
take the others’ places. No thought of escape now touched the Consul’s
mind. Both his will, and time, which hadn’t advanced five minutes since
he was last conscious of it, were paralysed. The Consul saw someone he
recognised: the driver of the bus that afternoon. He had arrived at that
stage of drunkenness where it becomes necessary to shake hands with
everyone. The Consul too found himself shaking hands with the driver.
“Dónde están vuestras palomas?” he asked him. Suddenly, at a nod from
Sanabria, the chief of Rostrums plunged his hands into the Consul’s
pockets. “Time you pay for—ah—Mehican whiky,” he said loudly, taking
out the Consul’s notecase with a wink at Diosdado. The Chief of
Municipality made his obscene circular movement of the hips. “Progresión
al culo—” he began. The Chief of Rostrums had abstracted the package of
Yvonne’s letters: he glanced sideways at this without removing the
elastic the Consul had replaced. “Chingao, cabrón.” His eyes consulted
Sanabria who, silent, stern, nodded again. The Chief brought out another
paper, and a card he didn’t know he possessed, from the Consul’s jacket
pocket. The three policemen put their heads together over the bar,
reading the paper. Now the Consul, baffled, was reading this paper
himself:

_Daily . . . Londres Presse. Collect antisemitic campaign mexpress
propetition . . . textile manufacture’s unquote . . . German behind
. . . interiorwards._ What was this? _. . . news . . . jews . . .
country belief . . . power ends conscience . . . unquote stop Firmin._

“No. Blackstone,” the Consul said.

“Cómo se llama? Your name is Firmin. It say there: Firmin. It say you
are Juden.”

“I don’t give a damn what it says anywhere. My name’s Blackstone, and
I’m not a journalist. True, vero, I’m a writer, an escritor, only on
economic matters,” the Consul wound up.

“Where your papers? What for you have no papers?” The Chief of Rostrums
asked, pocketing Hugh’s cable. “Where your passaporte? What need for you
to make disguise?”

The Consul removed his dark glasses. Mutely to him, between sardonic
thumb and forefinger, the Chief of Gardens held out the card:
_Federación Anarquista Ibérica_, it said. _Sr. Hugo Firmin._

“No comprendo,” the Consul took the card and turned it over.
“Blackstone’s my name. I am a writer, not an anarchist.”

“Wrider? You antichrista. Sí, you antichrista prik.” The Chief of
Rostrums snatched back the card and pocketed it. “And Juden,” he added.
He slipped the elastic from Yvonne’s letters and, moistening his thumb,
ran through them, glancing sideways once more at the envelopes.
“Chingar. What for you tell lies?” he said almost sorrowfully. “Cabrón.
What for you lie? It say here too: your name is Firmin.” It struck the
Consul that the legionnaire Weber, who was still in the bar, though at a
distance, was staring at him with a remote speculation, but he looked
away again. The Chief of Municipality regarded the Consul’s watch, which
he held in the palm of one mutilated hand, while he scratched himself
between the thighs with the other, fiercely. “Here, oiga.” The Chief of
Rostrums withdrew a ten-peso note from the Consul’s case, crackled it
and threw it on the counter. “Chingao.” Winking at Diosdado he replaced
the case in his own pocket with the Consul’s other things. Then Sanabria
spoke for the first time to him.

“I am afraid you must come to prison,” he said simply in English. He
went back to the phone.

The Chief of Municipality rolled his hips and gripped the Consul’s arm.
The Consul shouted at Diosdado in Spanish, shaking himself loose. He
managed to reach his hand over the bar but Diosdado struck it away. A
Few Fleas began to yap. A sudden noise from the corner startled
everyone: Yvonne and Hugh perhaps, at last. He turned round quickly,
still free of the Chief: it was only the uncontrollable face on the
barroom floor, the rabbit, having a nervous convulsion; trembling all
over, wrinkling its nose and scuffing disapprovingly. The Consul caught
sight of the old woman with the rebozo: loyally, she hadn’t gone. She
was shaking her head at him, frowning sadly, and he now realised she was
the same old woman who’d had the dominoes.

“What for you lie?” the Chief of Rostrums repeated in a glowering voice.
“You say your name is Black. No es Black.” He shoved him backwards
toward the door. “You say you are a wrider.” He shoved him again. “You
no are a wrider.” He pushed the Consul more violently, but the Consul
stood his ground. “You are no a de wrider, you are de espider, and we
shoota de espiders in Méjico.” Some military policemen watched with
concern. The newcomers were breaking up. Two pariah dogs ran around in
the bar. A woman clutched her baby to her, terrified. “You no wrider.”
The Chief caught him by the throat. “You Al Capón. You a Jew chingao.”
The Consul shook himself free again. “You are a spider.”

Abruptly the radio, which, as Sanabria finished with the phone again,
Diosdado had turned full blast, shouted in Spanish the Consul translated
to himself in a flash, shouted like orders yelled in a gale of wind, the
only orders that will save the ship: “Incalculable are the benefits
civilization has brought us, incommensurable the productive power of all
classes of riches originated by the inventions and discoveries of
science. Inconceivable the marvellous creations of the human sex in
order to make men more happy, more free, and more perfect. Without
parallel the crystalline and fecund fountains of the new life which
still remains closed to the thirsty lips of the people who follow in
their griping and bestial tasks.”

Suddenly the Consul thought he saw an enormous rooster flapping before
him, clawing and crowing. He raised his hands and it merded on his face.
He struck the returning Jefe de Jardineros straight between the eyes.
“Give me those letters back!” he heard himself shouting at the Chief of
Rostrums, but the radio drowned his voice, and now a peal of thunder
drowned the radio. “You poxboxes. You coxcoxes. You killed that Indian.
You tried to kill him and make it look like an accident,” he roared.
“You’re all in it. Then more of you came up and took his horse. Give me
my papers back.”

“Papers. Cabrón. You har no papers.” Straightening himself the Consul
saw in the Chief of Rostrums’ expression a hint of M. Laruelle and he
struck at it. Then he saw himself the Chief of Gardens again and struck
that figure; then in the Chief of Municipality the policeman Hugh had
refrained from striking this afternoon and he struck this figure too.
The clock outside quickly chimed seven times. The cock flapped before
his eyes, blinding him. The Chief of Rostrums took him by the coat.
Someone else seized him from behind. In spite of his struggles he was
being dragged towards the door. The fair man who had turned up again
helped shove him towards it; and Diosdado, who had vaulted ponderously
over the bar; and A Few Fleas, who kicked him viciously on the shins.
The Consul snatched a machete lying on a table near the entrance and
brandished it wildly. “Give me back those letters!” he cried. Where was
that bloody cock? He would chop off its head. He stumbled backwards out
into the road. People taking tables laden with gaseosas in from the
storm stopped to watch. The beggars turned their heads dully. The
sentinel outside the barracks stood motionless. The Consul didn’t know
what he was saying: “Only the poor, only through God, only the people
you wipe your feet on, the poor in spirit, old men carrying their
fathers and philosophers weeping in the dust, America perhaps, Don
Quixote—” he was still brandishing the sword, it was that sabre really,
he thought, in Maria’s room—“if you’d only stop interfering, stop
walking in your sleep, stop sleeping with my wife, only the beggars and
the accursed.” The machete fell with a rattle. The Consul felt himself
stumbling backwards until he fell over a tussock of grass. “You stole
that horse,” he repeated.

The Chief of Rostrums was looking down at him. Sanabria stood by silent,
grimly rubbing his cheek. “Norteamericano, eh,” said the Chief. “Inglés.
You Jew.” He narrowed his eyes. “What the hell you think you do around
here? You pelado, eh? It’s no good for your health. I shoot de twenty
people.” It was half a threat, half confidential. “We have found out—on
the telephone—is it right?—that you are a criminal. You want to be a
policeman? I make you policeman in Mexico.”

The Consul rose slowly to his feet, swaying. He caught sight of the
horse, tethered near him. Only now he saw it more vividly and as a
whole, electrified: the corded mouth, the shaved wooden pommel behind
which tape was hanging, the saddlebags, the mats under the belt, the
sore and the glossy shine on the hipbone, the number seven branded on
the rump, the stud behind the saddlebuckle glittering like a topaz in
the light from the cantina. He staggered towards it.

“I blow you wide open from your knees up, you Jew chingao,” warned the
Chief of Rostrums, grasping him by the collar, and the Chief of Gardens,
standing by, nodded gravely. The Consul, shaking himself free, tore
frantically at the horse’s bridle. The Chief of Rostrums stepped aside,
hand on his holster. He drew his pistol. With his free hand he waved
away some tentative onlookers. “I blow you wide open from your knees up,
you cabrón,” he said, “you pelado.”

“No, I wouldn’t do that,” said the Consul quietly, turning round.
“That’s a Colt ’17, isn’t it? It throws a lot of steel shavings.”

The Chief of Rostrums pushed the Consul back out of the light, took two
steps forward and fired. Lightning flashed like an inchworm going down
the sky and the Consul, reeling, saw above him for a moment the shape of
Popocatepetl, plumed with emerald snow and drenched with brilliance. The
Chief fired twice more, the shots spaced, deliberate. Thunderclaps
crashed on the mountains and then at hand. Released, the horse reared;
tossing its head, it wheeled round and plunged neighing into the forest.

At first the Consul felt a queer relief. Now he realised he had been
shot. He fell on one knee, then, with a groan, flat on his face in the
grass. “Christ,” he remarked, puzzled, “this is a dingy way to die.”

A bell spoke out:

_Dolente . . . dolore!_

It was raining softly. Shapes hovered by him, holding his hand, perhaps
still trying to pick his pockets, or to help, or merely curious. He
could feel his life slivering out of him like liver, ebbing into the
tenderness of the grass. He was alone. Where was everybody? Or had there
been no one. Then a face shone out of the gloom, a mask of compassion.
It was the old fiddler, stooping over him. “Compañero—” he began. Then
he had vanished.

Presently the word “pelado” began to fill his whole consciousness. That
had been Hugh’s word for the thief: now someone had flung the insult at
him. And it was as if, for a moment, he had become the pelado, the
thief—yes, the pilferer of meaningless muddled ideas out of which his
rejection of life had grown, who had worn his two or three little bowler
hats, his disguises, over these abstractions: now the realest of them
all was close. But someone had called him “compañero” too, which was
better, much better. It made him happy. These thoughts drifting through
his mind were accompanied by music he could hear only when he listened
carefully. Mozart was it? The Siciliana. Finale of the D minor quartet
by Moses. No, it was something funereal, of Gluck’s perhaps, from
Alcestis. Yet there was a Bach-like quality to it. Bach? A clavichord,
heard from far away, in England in the seventeenth century. England. The
chords of a guitar too, half lost, mingled with the distant clamour of a
waterfall and what sounded like the cries of love.

He was in Kashmir, he knew, lying in the meadows near running water
among violets and trefoil, the Himalayas beyond, which made it all the
more remarkable he should suddenly be setting out with Hugh and Yvonne
to climb Popocatepetl. Already they had drawn ahead. “Can you pick
bougainvillea?” he heard Hugh say, and, “Be careful,” Yvonne replied,
“it’s got spikes on it and you have to look at everything to be sure
there’re no spiders.” “We shoota de espiders in Mexico,” another voice
muttered. And with this Hugh and Yvonne had gone. He suspected they had
not only climbed Popocatepetl but were by now far beyond it. Painfully
he trudged the slope of the foothills toward Amecameca alone. With
ventilated snow goggles, with alpenstock, with mittens and a wool cap
pulled over his ears, with pockets full of dried prunes and raisins and
nuts, with a jar of rice protruding from one coat pocket, and the Hotel
Fausto’s information from the other, he was utterly weighed down. He
could go no farther. Exhausted, helpless, he sank to the ground. No one
would help him even if they could. Now he was the one dying by the
wayside where no good Samaritan would halt. Though it was perplexing
there should be this sound of laughter in his ears, of voices: ah, he
was being rescued at last. He was in an ambulance shrieking through the
jungle itself, racing uphill past the timberline toward the peak—and
this was certainly one way to get there!—while those were friendly
voices around him, Jacques’ and Vigil’s, they would make allowances,
would set Hugh and Yvonne’s minds at rest about him. “No se puede vivir
sin amar,” they would say, which would explain everything, and he
repeated this aloud. How could he have thought so evil of the world when
succour was at hand all the time? And now he had reached the summit. Ah,
Yvonne, sweetheart, forgive me! Strong hands lifted him. Opening his
eyes, he looked down, expecting to see, below him, the magnificent
jungle, the heights, Pico de Orizabe, Malinche, Cofre de Perote, like
those peaks of his life conquered one after another before this greatest
ascent of all had been successfully, if unconventionally, completed. But
there was nothing there: no peaks, no life, no climb. Nor was this
summit a summit exactly: it had no substance, no firm base. It was
crumbling too, whatever it was, collapsing, while he was falling,
falling into the volcano, he must have climbed it after all, though now
there was this noise of foisting lava in his ears, horribly, it was in
eruption, yet no, it wasn’t the volcano, the world itself was bursting,
bursting into black spouts of villages catapulted into space, with
himself falling through it all, through the inconceivable pandemonium of
a million tanks, through the blazing of ten million burning bodies,
falling, into a forest, falling—

Suddenly he screamed, and it was as though this scream were being tossed
from one tree to another, as its echoes returned, then, as though the
trees themselves were crowding nearer, huddled together, closing over
him, pitying . . .

Somebody threw a dead dog after him down the ravine.




                         ¿LE GUSTA ESTE JARDÍN
                              QUE ES SUYO?
                   ¡EVITE QUE SUS HIJOS LO DESTRUYAN!




                           TRANSCRIBER NOTES

Misspelled words and printer errors have been corrected. Where multiple
spellings occur, majority use has been employed.

Punctuation has been maintained except where obvious printer errors
occur.

[The end of _Under the Volcano_ by Malcolm Lowry]
